He sees me. Charlie dropped to her hands and knees. She was wedged behind a 
row of arcade games, cramped in the crawl space between the consoles 
and the wall, tangled electrical cords and useless plugs strewn beneath 
her. She was cornered; the only way out was past the thing, and she 
wasn’t fast enough to make it. She could see him stalking back and forth, 
catching flickers of movement through the gaps between the games. 
There was scarcely enough room to move, but she tried to crawl 
backward. Her foot caught on a cord. She stopped, contorting herself to 
carefully dislodge it. She heard the clash of metal on metal, and the farthest console rocked 
back against the wall. He hit it again, shattering the display, then 
attacked the next, crashing against them almost rhythmically, tearing 
through the machinery, coming closer. I have to get out, I have to! The panicked thought was of no help; 
there was no way out. Her arm ached, and she wanted to sob aloud. 
Blood soaked through the tattered bandage, and it seemed as though she could feel it draining out of her. The console a few feet away crashed against the wall, and Charlie 
flinched. He was getting closer; she could hear the grinding of gears and 
the clicking of servos, ever louder. Eyes closed, she could still see the 
way he looked at her, see the matted fur and the exposed metal beneath 
the synthetic flesh. Suddenly the console in front of her was wrenched away. It toppled 
over, thrown down like a toy. The power cords beneath her hands and 
knees were yanked away, and Charlie slipped, almost falling. She caught 
herself and looked up just in time to see the downward swing of a hook 

WELCOME TO HURRICANE, UTAH. Charlie smiled wryly at the sign and kept driving. The world didn’t 
look any different from one side of the sign to the other, but she felt a 
nervous anticipation as she passed it. She didn’t recognize anything. 
Then again, she hadn’t really expected to, not this far at the edge of town 
where it was all highway and empty space. She wondered what the others would look like, who they were now. 
Ten years ago they’d been best friends. And then it happened, and 
everything ended, at least for Charlie. She hadn’t seen any of them since 
she was seven years old. They had written all the time as kids, especially 
Marla, who wrote like she talked: fast and incoherent. But as they got 
older they had grown apart, the letters had grown fewer and further 
between, and the conversations leading up to this trip had been 
perfunctory and full of awkward pauses. Charlie repeated their names as 
though to reassure herself that she still remembered them: Marla. 
Jessica. Lamar. Carlton. John. And Michael Michael was the reason 
for this trip, after all. It was ten years since he’d died, ten years since it 
happened, and now his parents wanted them all together for the 
dedication ceremony. They wanted all his old friends there when they 
announced the scholarship they were creating in his name. Charlie knew 
it was a good thing to do, but the gathering still felt slightly macabre. She shivered and turned down the air-conditioning, even though she knew it 
was not the cold. As she drove into the town center, Charlie began to recognize things: 
a few stores and the movie theater, which was now advertising the 
summer’s blockbuster hit. She felt a brief moment of surprise, then 
smiled at herself. What did you expect, that the whole place would be 
unchanged? A monument to the moment of your departure, frozen 
forever in July 1985? Well, that was exactly what she had expected. She 
looked at her watch. Still a few hours to kill before they all met up. She 
thought about going to the movie, but she knew what she really wanted 
to do. Charlie made a left turn and headed out of town. Ten minutes later, she pulled to a stop and got out. The house loomed up before her, its dark outline a wound in the 
bright-blue sky. Charlie leaned back against the car, slightly dizzy. She 
took a moment to steady herself with deep breaths. She had known it 
would be here. An illicit look through her aunt’s bank books a few years 
before had told her that the mortgage was paid off and that Aunt Jen was 
still paying property taxes. It had only been ten years; there was no 
reason it should have changed at all. Charlie climbed the steps slowly, 
taking in the peeling paint. The third stair still had a loose board, and the 
rosebushes had taken over one side of the porch, their thorns biting 
hungrily into the wood. The door was locked, but Charlie still had her 
key. She had never actually used it. As she took it from around her neck 
and slid it into the lock, she remembered her father putting its chain 
around her neck. In case you ever need it. Well, she needed it now. The door opened easily, and Charlie looked around. She didn’t 
remember much about the first couple of years here. She had been only 
three years old, and all the memories had faded together in the blur of a 
child’s grief and loss, of not understanding why her mother had to go 
away, clinging to her father every moment, not trusting the world around 
her unless he was there, unless she was holding tightly to him, burying 
herself in his flannel shirts and the smell of grease and hot metal and 
him. The stairs stretched straight up in front of her, but she did not move directly to them. Instead she went into the living room, where all the 
furniture was still in place. She had not really noticed it as a child, but 
the house was a little too large for the furniture they had. Things were 
spread out too widely in order to fill the space: The coffee table was too 
far from the couch to reach, the easy chair too far across the room to 
carry on a conversation. There was a dark stain in the wooden 
floorboards near the center of the room. Charlie stepped around it 
quickly and went to the kitchen, where the cupboards held only a few 
pots, pans, and dishes. Charlie had never felt a lack of anything as a 
child, but it seemed now that the unnecessary enormity of the house was 
a sort of apology, the attempt of a man who had lost so much to give his 
daughter what he could. He’d always had a way of overdoing whatever 
he did. The last time she was here the house had been dark and everything 
felt wrong. She was carried up the stairs to her bedroom although she 
was seven years old and could have gone quicker on her own two feet. 
But Aunt Jen had stopped on the front porch, picked her up, and carried 
her, shielding her face as though she were a baby in the glaring sun. In her room, Aunt Jen set Charlie down and closed the bedroom door 
behind them. She told her to pack her suitcase, and Charlie had cried 
because all her things could never fit into that small case. “We can come back for the rest later,” Aunt Jen said, her impatience 
leaking through as Charlie hovered indecisively at her dresser, trying to 
decide which T-shirts to bring along. They had never come back for the 
rest. Charlie mounted the stairs, heading to her old bedroom. The door 
was partially cracked, and as she opened it she had a giddy feeling of 
displacement, as though her younger self might be sitting there among 
her toys, might look up and ask Charlie, Who are you? Charlie went in. Like the rest of the house, her bedroom was untouched. The walls 
were pale pink, and the ceiling, which sloped dramatically on one side to 
follow the line of the roof, was painted to match. Her old bed still stood 
against the wall beneath a large window; the mattress was still intact, 
though the sheets were gone. The window was cracked slightly open, and rotting lace curtains wavered in the gentle breeze from outside. There 
was a dark water stain in the paint beneath the window where the 
weather had gotten in over the years, betraying the house’s neglect. 
Charlie climbed onto the bed and forced the window shut. It obeyed with 
a screech, and Charlie stepped back and turned her attention to the rest of 
the room, to her father’s creations. Their first night in the house, Charlie had been afraid to sleep alone. 
She did not remember the night, but her father had told her about it often 
enough that the story had taken on the quality of memory. She sat up and 
wailed until her father came to find her, until he scooped her up and held 
her and promised her he would make sure she was never alone again. 
The next morning, he took her by the hand and led her to the garage, 
where he set to work keeping that promise. The first of his inventions was a purple rabbit, now gray with age 
from years of sitting in the sunlight. Her father had named him Theodore. 
He was the size of a three-year-old child—her size at the time—and he 
had plush fur, shining eyes, and a dapper red bow tie. He didn’t do much, 
only waved a hand, tilted his head to the side, and said in her father’s 
voice, “I love you, Charlie.” But it was enough to give her a night 
watcher, someone to keep her company when she could not sleep. Right 
now Theodore sat in a white wicker chair in the far corner of the room. 
Charlie waved at him, but, not activated, he did not wave back. After Theodore, the toys got more complex. Some worked and some 
did not; some seemed to have permanent glitches, while others simply 
did not appeal to Charlie’s childish imagination. She knew her father 
took those back to his workshop and recycled them for parts, though she 
did not like to watch them be dismantled. But the ones that were kept, 
those she loved, they were here now, looking at her expectantly. Smiling, 
Charlie pushed a button beside her bed. It gave way stiffly, but nothing 
happened. She pushed it again, holding it down longer, and this time, 
across the room and with the weary creak of metal on metal, the unicorn 
began to move. The unicorn (Charlie had named him Stanley for some reason she 
could no longer remember) was made of metal and had been painted glossy white. He trundled around the room on a circular track, bobbing 
his head stiffly up and down. The track squealed as Stanley rounded the 
corner and came to a stop beside the bed. Charlie knelt beside him on the 
floor and patted his flank. His glossy paint was chipped and peeling, and 
his face had given over to rust. His eyes were lively, gazing out of the 
decay. “You need a new coat of paint, Stanley,” Charlie said. The unicorn 
stared ahead, unresponsive. At the foot of the bed, there was a wheel. Made of patched-together 
metal, it had always reminded her of something she might find on a 
submarine. Charlie turned it. It stuck for a moment, then gave way, 
rotating as it always did, and across the room the smallest closet door 
swung open. Out sailed Ella on her track, a child-size doll bearing a 
teacup and saucer in her tiny hands like an offering. Ella’s plaid dress 
was still crisp, and her patent leather shoes still shone; perhaps the closet 
had protected her from the damage of the damp. Charlie had had an 
identical outfit, back when she and Ella were the same height. “Hi, Ella,” she said softly. As the wheel unwound, Ella retreated to 
the closet again, the door closing behind her. Charlie followed her. The 
closets had been built to align with the slant of the ceiling, and there 
were three of them. Ella lived in the short one, which was about three 
and a half feet tall. Next to it was one a foot or so taller, and a third, 
closest to the bedroom door, was the same height as the rest of the room. 
She smiled, remembering. “Why do you have three closets?” John had demanded the first time 
he came over. She looked at him blankly, confused by the question. “ ’Cause that’s how many there are,” she said finally. She pointed 
defensively to the littlest one. “That one’s Ella’s anyway,” she added. 
John nodded, satisfied. Charlie shook her head and opened the door to the middle closet—or 
tried to. The knob stopped with a jolt: It was locked. She rattled it a few 
times but gave up without much conviction. She stayed crouched low to 
the floor and glanced up at the tallest closet, her big-girl closet that she 
would someday grow into. “You won’t need it until you’re bigger,” her father would say, but that day never came. The door now hung open 
slighdy, but Charlie didn’t disturb it. It hadn’t opened for her; it had only 
given way to time. As she moved to stand, she noticed something shiny, half-hidden 
under the rim of the locked middle door. She leaned forward to pick it 
up. It looked like a broken-off piece of a circuit board. She smiled 
slighdy. Nuts, bolts, scraps, and parts had turned up all over the place, 
once upon a time. Her father always had stray parts in his pockets. He 
would carry around something he was working on, set it down, and 
forget where it was, or worse, put something aside “for safekeeping,” 
never to be seen again. There was also a strand of her hair clinging to it; 
she unwound it carefully from the tiny lip of metal it was stuck on. Finally, as though she had been putting it off, Charlie crossed the 
room and picked up Theodore. His back had not faded in the sun like the 
front of his body, and it was the same rich, dark purple she remembered. 
She pressed the button at the base of his neck, but he remained lifeless. 
His fur was threadbare, one ear hanging loose by a single rotting thread, 
and through the hole she could see the green plastic of his circuit board. 
Charlie held her breath, listening fearfully for something. “I—ou—lie—” the rabbit said with a barely audible halting noise, 
and Charlie set him down, her face hot and her chest pinched tight. She 
had not really expected to hear her father’s voice again. I love you, too. Charlie looked around the room. When she was a child it had been 
her own magical world, and she was possessive of it. Only a few chosen 
friends were ever even allowed inside. She went to her bed and set 
Stanley moving on his track again. She left, closing the door behind her 
before the little unicorn came to a halt. She went out the back door to the driveway and stopped in front of 
the garage that had been her father’s workshop. Half-buried in the gravel 
a few feet away was a piece of metal, and Charlie went to pick it up. It 
was jointed in the middle, and she held it in her hands, smiling a little as 
she bent it back and forth. An elbow joint, she thought. I wonder who that 
was going to belong to? She had stood in this exact spot many times before. She closed her eyes, and the memory overwhelmed her. She was a little girl again, 
sitting on the floor of her father’s workshop, playing with scraps of wood 
and metal as though they were toy blocks, trying to build a tower with 
the uneven pieces. The shop was hot, and she was sweaty, grime sticking 
to her legs as she sat in her shorts and sneakers. She could almost smell 
the sharp, metallic odor of the soldering iron. Her father was nearby, 
never out of sight, working on Stanley the unicorn. Stanley’s face was still unfinished: one side white and shining and 
friendly, with a gleaming brown eye that seemed almost to see. The other 
half of the toy’s face was all exposed circuit boards and metal parts. 
Charlie’s father looked at her and smiled, and she smiled back, beloved. 
In a darkened corner behind her father, barely visible, hung a jumble of 
metal limbs, a twisted skeleton with burning silver eyes. Every once in a 
while, it gave an uncanny twitch. Charlie tried never to look at it, but as 
her father worked, as she played with her makeshift toys, her eye was 
drawn back to it again and again. The limbs, contorted, seemed almost 
mocking, the thing a ghastly jester, and yet there was something about it 
that suggested enormous pain. “Daddy?” Charlie said, and her father did not look up from his work. 
“Daddy?” she said again, more urgently, and this time he turned to her 
slowly, as though not fully present in the world. “What do you need, sweetie?” She pointed at the metal skeleton. Does it hurt? She wanted to ask the 
question, but when she looked into her father’s eyes she found she could 
not. She shook her head. “Nothing.” He nodded at her with an absent smile and went back to his work. 
Behind him, the creature gave another awful twitch, and its eyes still 
burned. Charlie shivered and drew herself back to the present. She glanced 
behind her, feeling exposed. She looked down, and her gaze fixed on 
something: three widely spaced grooves in the ground. She knelt, 
thoughtful, and ran her finger over one of them. The gravel was scattered 
away, the marks worn heavily into the dirt. A camera tripod of some sort? It was the first unfamiliar thing she’d seen. The door to the 
workshop was cracked open slightly, inviting, but she felt no desire to go 
inside. Quickly, she headed back to her car, but she stopped as soon as 
she settled into the driver’s seat. Her keys were gone, having probably 
fallen out of her pocket somewhere inside the house. She retraced her steps, merely glancing into the living room and 
kitchen before heading up to her bedroom. The keys were on the wicker 
chair, beside Theodore the rabbit. She picked them up and jangled them 
for a moment, not quite ready to leave the room behind. She sat down on 
the bed. Stanley the unicorn had stopped beside the bed as he always did, 
and as she sat, she patted him absently on the head. It had grown dark 
while she was outside, and the room was now cast in shadows. 
Somehow, without the bright sunlight, the toys’ flaws and deterioration 
were thrown into sharp relief. Theodore’s eyes no longer shone, and his 
thin fur and hanging ear made him look like a sickly vagabond. When 
she looked down at Stanley, the rust around his eyes made them look like 
hollow sockets, and his bared teeth, which she had always thought of as a 
smile, became the awful, knowing grin of a skull. Charlie stood up, 
careful not to touch him, and hurried toward the door, but her foot caught 
on the wheel beside the bed. She tripped on the tracks and fell sprawling 
to the floor. There was a whir of spinning metal, and as she raised her 
head, a small pair of feet appeared under her nose, clad in shining patent 
leather. She looked up. There above her was Ella, staring down at her, silent and uninvited, 
her glassy eyes almost appearing to see. The teacup and saucer were held 
out before her with a military stiffness. Charlie got up cautiously, taking 
care not to disturb the doll. She left the room, stepping carefully to avoid 
accidentally activating any other toys. As Charlie went, Ella retreated to 
her closet, almost matching her pace. Charlie hurried down the stairs, seized by an urgency to get away. In 
the car, she fumbled the key three times before sliding it into place. She 
backed too fast down the driveway, running recklessly over the grass of 
the front yard, and sped away. After about a mile, Charlie pulled over on 
the shoulder and turned the car off, staring straight ahead through the windshield, her eyes focused on nothing. She forced herself to breathe 
slowly. She reached up and adjusted the rearview mirror so she could see 
herself. She always expected to see pain, anger, and sorrow written on her 
face, but they never were. Her cheeks were pink, and her round face 
looked almost cheerful, like always. Her first weeks living with Aunt 
Jen, she heard the same things over and over when Aunt Jen introduced 
her: “What a pretty child. What a happy-looking child she is. ” Charlie 
always looked like she was about to smile, her brown eyes wide and 
sparkling, her thin mouth ready to curve up, even when she wanted to 
sob. The incongruity was a mild betrayal. She ran her fingers through her 
light brown hair as though that would magically fix its slight frizziness 
and put the mirror back into position. She turned the car back on and searched for a radio station, hoping 
music might bring her fully back to reality. She flipped from station to 
station, not really hearing what any of them were playing, and finally 
settled on an AM broadcast with a host who seemed to be yelling 
condescendingly at his audience. She had no idea what he was talking 
about, but the brash and annoying sound was enough to jar her back into 
the present. The clock in the car was always wrong, so she checked her 
watch. It was almost time to meet her friends at the diner they had 
chosen, near the center of town. Charlie pulled back onto the road and drove, letting the sound of the 
angry talk radio host soothe her mind. When she reached the restaurant, Charlie pulled into the lot and 
stopped, but did not park. The front of the diner had a long picture 
window all across it, and she could see right inside. Though she had not 
seen them for years, it took her only a moment to spot her friends 
through the glass. Jessica was easiest to pick out from the crowd. She always enclosed 
pictures with her letters, and right now she looked exactly like her last 
photo. Even seated, she was clearly taller than either of the boys, and 
very thin. Though Charlie could not see her whole outfit, she was 
wearing a loose white shirt with an embroidered vest, and she had a brimmed hat perched on her glossy, shoulder-length brown hair, with an 
enormous flower threatening to tip it off her head. She was gesturing 
excitedly about something as she spoke. The two boys were sitting next to each other, facing her. Carlton 
looked like an older version of his red-headed childhood self. He still had 
a bit of a baby face, but his features had refined, and his hair was 
carefully tousled and held in place by some alchemical hair product. He 
was almost pretty, for a boy, and he wore a black workout shirt, though 
she doubted he’d ever worked out a day in his life. He slouched forward 
on the table, resting his chin in his hands. Beside him, John sat closest to 
the window. John had been the kind of child who got dirty before he 
even went outside: There would be paint on his shirt before the teacher 
handed out the watercolors, grass stains on his knees before they came 
near a playground, and dirt under his fingernails just after he washed his 
hands. Charlie knew it was him because it had to be, but he looked 
completely different. The grubbiness of childhood had been replaced by 
something crisp and clean. He was wearing a neatly pressed, light-green 
button-down shirt, the sleeves rolled up and the collar open, preventing 
him from looking too uptight. He was leaning back confidently in the 
booth, nodding enthusiastically, apparently absorbed in whatever Jessica 
was saying. The only concession to his former self was his hair, sticking 
up all over his head, and he had a five-o’clock shadow, a smug, adult 
version of the dirt he was always covered in as a kid. Charlie smiled to herself. John had been something like her 
childhood crush, before either of them really understood what that meant. 
He gave her cookies from his Transformers lunchbox, and once in 
kindergarten he took the blame when she broke the glass jar that held 
colored beads for arts and crafts. She remembered the moment when it 
slipped from her hands, and she watched it fall. She could not have 
moved fast enough to catch it, but she would not have tried. She wanted 
to see it break. The glass hit the wood floor and shattered into a thousand 
pieces, and the beads scattered, many colored, among the shards. She 
thought it was beautiful, and then she started to cry. John had a note sent 
home to his parents, and when she told him “thank you” he had winked at her with an irony beyond his years and simply said, “For what?” After that, John was allowed to come to her room. She let him play 
with Stanley and Theodore, watching anxiously the first time he learned 
to press the buttons and make them move. She would be crushed if he 
didn’t like them, knowing instinctively that it would make her think less 
of him. They were her family. But John was fascinated as soon as he saw 
them; he loved her mechanical toys, and so she loved him. Two years 
later, behind a tree beside her father’s workshop, she almost let him kiss 
her. And then it happened, and everything ended, at least for Charlie. Charlie shook herself, forcing her mind back to the present. Looking 
again at Jessica’s polished appearance, she glanced down at herself. 
Purple T-shirt, denim jacket, black jeans, and combat boots. It had felt 
like a good choice this morning, but now she wished she had chosen 
something else. This is all you ever wear, she reminded herself. She 
parked and locked the car behind her, even though people in Hurricane 
did not usually lock their cars. Then she went into the diner to meet her 
friends for the first time in ten years. The warmth, noise, and light of the restaurant hit her in a wave as she 
entered. For a moment she was overwhelmed, but Jessica saw her pause 
in the doorway and shouted her name. Charlie smiled and went over. “Hi,” she said awkwardly, flicking her eyes at each of them but not 
fully making contact. Jessica scooted over on the red vinyl bench and 
patted the seat beside her. “Here, sit,” she said. “I was just telling John and Carlton about my 
glamorous life.” She rolled her eyes as she said it, managing to convey 
both self-deprecation and the sense that her life was truly something 
exciting. “Did you know Jessica lives in New York?” Carlton said. There was 
something careful about the way he spoke, like he was thinking about his 
words before he formed them. John was silent, but he smiled at Charlie 
anxiously. Jessica rolled her eyes again, and with a flash of deja vu Charlie 
suddenly recalled that this had been a habit even when they were 
children. “Eight million people live in New York, Carlton. It’s not exactly an 
achievement,” Jessica said. Carlton shrugged. “I’ve never been anywhere,” he said. “I didn’t know you still lived in town,” Charlie said. “Where else am I going to live? My family has been here since 
1896,” he added, deepening his voice to mimic his father. “Is that even true?” Charlie asked. “I don’t know,” Carlton said in his own register. “Could be. Dad ran 
for mayor two years ago. I mean, he lost, but still, who runs for mayor?” 
He made a face. “I swear, the day I turn eighteen I am out of here.” “Where are you going to go?” John asked, looking seriously at 
Carlton. Carlton met his eyes, just as serious for a moment. Abruptly, he 
broke away and pointed out the window, closing one eye as if to get his 
aim true. John raised an eyebrow as he looked out the window, trying to 
follow the line Carlton was pointing to. Charlie looked, too. Carlton 
wasn’t pointing at anything. John opened his mouth to say something, 
but Carlton interrupted. “Or,” he said as he smoothly pointed in the opposite direction. “Okay.” John scratched his head, looking slightly embarrassed. 
“Anywhere, right?” he added with a laugh. “Where’s everyone else?” Charlie asked, peering out the window and 
searching the parking lot for new arrivals. “Tomorrow,” John said. “They’re coming tomorrow morning,” Jessica jumped in to clarify. 
“Marla’s bringing her little brother. Can you believe it?” “Jason?” Charlie smiled. She remembered Jason as a little bundle of 
blankets with a tiny red face peeking out. “I mean, who wants a baby around?” Jessica adjusted her hat primly. “I’m pretty sure he’s not a baby anymore,” Charlie said, stifling a 
laugh. “Practically a baby,” Jessica said. “Anyway, I booked us a room at 
the motel down by the highway. It was all I could find. The boys are 
staying with Carlton.” “Okay,” Charlie said. She was vaguely impressed by Jessica’s 
organization, but she wasn’t happy about the plan. She was loath to share 
a room with Jessica, who now seemed like a stranger. Jessica had 
become the kind of girl who intimidated her: polished and immaculate, 
speaking as though she had everything in life figured out. For a moment 
Charlie considered going back to her old house for the night, but as soon 
as she thought it, the idea repelled her. That house, at night, was no 
longer the province of the living. Don’t be dramatic, she scolded herself, 
but now John was speaking. He had a way of commanding attention with 
his voice, probably because he spoke less often than everyone else. He 
spent most of his time listening, but not out of reticence. He was 
gathering information, speaking only when he had wisdom or sarcasm to 
dispense. Often it was both at once. “Does anyone know what’s happening tomorrow?” They were all silent for a moment, and the waitress took the 
opportunity to come over for their order. Charlie flipped quickly through 
the menu, her eyes not really focusing on the words. Her turn to order 
came much faster than she was expecting, and she froze. “Um, eggs,” she said at last. The woman’s hard expression was still 
fixed on her, and she realized she had not finished. “Scrambled. Wheat 
toast,” she added, and the woman went away. Charlie looked back down 
at the menu. She hated this about herself. When she was caught off guard 
she seemed to lose all ability to act or process what was going on around 
her. People were incomprehensible, their demands alien. Ordering 
dinner shouldn’t be hard, she thought. The others had begun their 
conversation again, and she turned her attention to them, feeling like she 
had fallen behind. “What do we even say to his parents?” Jessica was saying. “Carlton, do you ever see them?” Charlie asked. “Not really,” he said. “Around, I guess. Sometimes.” “I’m surprised they stayed in Hurricane,” Jessica said with a note of 
worldly disapproval in her voice. Charlie said nothing, but she thought, How could they not? His body had never been found. How could they not have secretly hoped he might come home, no matter how impossible they knew it was? 
How could they leave the only home Michael knew? It would mean 
really, finally giving up on him. Maybe that was what this scholarship 
was: an admission that he was never coming home. Charlie was acutely aware that they were in a public place, where 
talking about Michael felt inappropriate. They were, in a sense, both 
insiders and outsiders. They had been closer to Michael, probably more 
than anyone in this restaurant, but, with the exception of Carlton, they 
were no longer from Hurricane. They did not belong. She saw the tears falling on her paper placemat before she felt them, 
and she hurriedly wiped her eyes, looking down and hoping no one had 
noticed. When she looked up, John appeared to be studying his 
silverware, but she knew he had seen. She was grateful to him for not 
trying to offer comfort. “John, do you still write?” Charlie asked. John had declared himself “an author” when they were about six, 
having learned to read and write when he was four, a year ahead of the 
rest of them. At the age of seven, he completed his first “novel” and 
pressed his poorly spelled, inscrutably illustrated creation on his friends 
and family, demanding reviews. Charlie remembered that she had given 
him only two stars. John laughed at the question. “I actually do my Es the right way these 
days,” he said. “I can’t believe you remember that. But I do actually, 
yeah.” He stopped, clearly wanting to say more. “What do you write?” Carlton obliged, and John looked down at his 
placemat, speaking mostly to the table. “Um, short stories, mostly. I actually had one published last year. I 
mean, it was just in a magazine, nothing big.” They all made suitable 
noises of being impressed, and he looked up again, embarrassed but 
pleased. “What was the story about?” Charlie asked. John hesitated, but before he could speak or decide not to, the 
waitress returned with their food. They had all ordered from the breakfast 
menu: coffee, eggs, and bacon; blueberry pancakes for Carlton. The brightly colored food looked hopeful, like a fresh start to the day. Charlie 
took a bite of her toast, and they all ate silendy for a moment. “Hey, Carlton,” John said suddenly. “What ever happened to 
Freddy’s anyway?” There was a brief hush. Carlton looked nervously at Charlie, and 
Jessica stared up at the ceiling. John flushed red, and Charlie spoke 
hastily. “It’s okay, Carlton. I’d like to know, too.” Carlton shrugged, stabbing at his pancakes nervously with his fork. “They built over it,” he said. “What did they build?” Jessica asked. “Is there something else there now? Was it built over, or just tom 
down?” John asked. Carlton shrugged again, quick, like a nervous tic. “Like I said, I don’t know. It’s too far back from the road to see, and 
I haven’t exactly investigated. It might have been leased to someone, but 
I don’t know what they did. It’s all been blocked off for years, under 
construction. You can’t even tell if the building is still there.” “So it could still be there?” Jessica asked with a spark of excitement 
breaking through. “Like I said, I don’t know,” Carlton answered. Charlie felt the diner’s fluorescent lights glaring down on her face, 
suddenly too bright. She felt exposed. She had barely eaten, but she 
found herself rising from the booth, pulling a few cmmpled bills from 
her pocket, and dropping them on the table. “I’m going to go outside for a minute,” she said. “Smoke break,” she 
added hastily. You don’t smoke. She chided herself for the clumsy lie as 
she made her way to the door, jostling past a family of four without 
saying “excuse me,” and stepped out into the cool evening. She walked 
to her car and sat on the hood, the metal denting slightly under her 
weight. She took in breaths of the cool air as if it were water and closed 
her eyes. You knew it would come up. You knew you would have to talk 
about it, she reminded herself. She had practiced on the drive here, had 
forced herself to think back to happy memories, to smile and say, 
“Remember when?” She thought she was prepared for this. But of course she had been wrong. Why else would she have run out of the 
restaurant like a child? “Charlie?” She opened her eyes and saw John standing next to the car, holding 
her jacket out in front of him like an offering. “You forgot your jacket,” he said, and she made herself smile at him. “Thanks,” she said. She took it and draped it over her shoulders, then 
slid over on the car’s hood for him to sit. “Sorry about that,” she said. In the dim lights of the parking lot she 
could still see him blush to the ears. He joined her on the car’s hood, 
leaving a deliberate space between them. “I haven’t learned to think before I talk. I’m sorry.” John watched the 
sky as a plane passed overhead. Charlie smiled, this time unforced. “It’s okay. I knew it was going to come up; it had to. I just—it sounds 
stupid, but I never think about it. I don’t let myself. No one knows what 
happened except my aunt, and we never talk about it. Then I come here, 
and suddenly it’s everywhere. I was just surprised, that’s all.” “Uh-oh.” John pointed, and Charlie saw Jessica and Carlton 
hesitating in the doorway of the diner. She waved them over, and they 
came. “Remember that time at Freddy’s when the merry-go-round got 
stuck, and Marla and that mean kid Billy had to keep riding it until their 
parents plucked them off?” Charlie said. John laughed, and the sound made her smile. “Their faces were bright red, crying like babies.” She covered her 
face, guilty that it was so funny to her. There was a brief, surprised silence, then Carlton started laughing. 
“Then Marla puked all over him!” “Sweet justice!” Charlie said. “Actually, I think it was nachos,” John added. Jessica wrinkled her nose. “So gross. I never rode it again, not after 
that.” “Oh, come on, Jessica, they cleaned it,” said Carlton. “I’m pretty sure kids puked all over that place; those wet floor signs weren’t there for 
nothing. Right, Charlie?” “Don’t look at me,” she said. “I never puked.” “We used to spend so much time there! Privileges of knowing the 
owner’s daughter,” Jessica said, looking at Charlie with mock 
accusation. “I couldn’t help who my dad was!” Charlie said, laughing. Jessica looked thoughtful for a moment before she continued. “I 
mean, how could you have a better childhood than spending all day at 
Freddy Fazbear’s Pizza?” “I dunno,” said Carlton. “I think that music got to me over the years.” 
He hummed a few bars of the familiar song. Charlie dipped her head to 
it, recalling the tune. “I loved those animals so much,” Jessica said suddenly. “What’s the 
proper term for them? Animals, robots, mascots?” “I think those are all accurate.” Charlie leaned back. “Well, anyway, I used to go and talk to the bunny, what was his 
name?” “Bonnie,” Charlie said. “Yeah,” said Jessica. “I used to complain to him about my parents. I 
always thought he had an understanding look about him.” Carlton laughed. “Animatronic therapy! Recommended by six out of 
seven crazy people.” “Shut up,” Jessica retorted. “I knew he wasn’t real. I just liked talking 
to him.” Charlie smiled a little. “I remember that,” she said. Jessica in her 
prim little dresses, her brown hair in two tight braids like a litde kid out 
of an old book, walking up to the stage when the show was over, 
whispering earnesdy to the life-size animatronic rabbit. If anyone came 
up beside her, she went instantly silent and still, waiting for them to go 
away so she could resume her one-sided conversations. Charlie had 
never talked to the animals at her father’s restaurant or felt close to them 
like some kids seemed to; although she liked them, they belonged to the 
public. She had her own toys, mechanical friends waiting for her at home, that belonged only to her. “I liked Freddy,” said John. “He always seemed the most relatable.” “You know, there are a lot of things about my childhood that I can’t 
remember at all,” Carlton said, “but I swear I can close my eyes and see 
every last detail of that place. Even the gum I used to stick under the 
tables.” “Gum? Yeah, right; those were boogers.” Jessica took a tiny step 
away from Carlton. He grinned. “I was seven; what do you want? You all picked on me 
back then. Remember when Marla wrote ‘Carlton smells like feet’ on the 
wall outside?” “You did smell like feet.” Jessica laughed with a sudden outburst. Carlton shrugged, unperturbed. “I used to try to hide when it was 
time to go home. I wanted to be stuck in there overnight so I could have 
the whole place to myself.” “Yeah, you always kept everyone waiting,” said John, “and you 
always hid under the same table.” Charlie spoke slowly, and when she did everyone turned to her, as 
though they had been waiting. “Sometimes I feel like I remember every inch of it, like Carlton,” she 
said. “But sometimes it’s like I hardly remember it at all. It’s all in 
pieces. Like, I remember the carousel, and that time it got stuck. I 
remember drawing on the placemats. I remember little things: eating that 
greasy pizza, hugging Freddy in the summer and his yellow fur getting 
stuck all over my clothes. But a lot of it is like pictures, like it happened 
to someone else.” They were all looking at her oddly. “Freddy was brown, right?” Jessica looked to the others for 
confirmation. “I guess you really don’t remember it that well after all,” Carlton 
teased Charlie, and she laughed briefly. “Right. I meant brown,” she said. Brown, Freddy was brown. Of 
course he was; she could see him in her mind now. But somewhere in the 
depths of her recall, there was a flash of something else. Carlton launched into another story, and Charlie tried to turn her 
attention to him, but there was something disturbing, worrisome, about 
that lapse in memory. It was ten years ago; it’s not like you’ve got 
dementia at seventeen, she told herself, but it was such a basic detail to 
have misremembered. Out of the corner of her eye, she caught John 
looking at her, a pensive expression on his face, as though she had said 
something important. “You really don’t know what happened to it?” she asked Carlton with 
more urgency in her voice than she intended. He stopped talking, 
surprised. “Sorry,” she said. “Sorry, I didn’t mean to interrupt you.” “It’s okay,” he said. “But yeah—or no, I really don’t know what 
happened.” “How can you not know? You live here.” “Charlie, come on,” said John. “It’s not like I hang around that part of town. Things are different; the 
town has grown,” Carlton said mildly, seeming unruffled by her outburst. 
“And I honesdy don’t look for reasons to go around there, you know? 
Why would I? There isn’t any reason, not anymore.” “We could go there,” John said suddenly, and Charlie’s heart 
skipped. Carlton looked nervously at Charlie. “What? Seriously, it’s a mess. I 
don’t know if you can even get to it.” Charlie found herself nodding. She felt as though she had spent the 
whole day weighed down by memory, seeing everything through a filter 
of years, and now she felt suddenly alert, her mind fully present. She 
wanted to go. “Let’s do it,” she said. “Even if there’s nothing there. I want to see.” 
They were all silent. Suddenly, John smiled with a reckless confidence. “Yeah. Let’s do it.” 
Charlie pulled to a stop, feeling the soft give of dirt under her tires, and 
turned off the car. She got out and surveyed their surroundings. The sky 
was a rich, dark blue, the last trails of the sunset streaking off to the west. 
The parking lot was unpaved, and before them lay a sprawling monster 
of a building, a rising acre of glass and concrete. There were lamps in the 
parking lot that had never been used, and no lights shone out onto the lot. 
The building itself looked like an abandoned sanctuary, entombed in 
black trees amid the distant roar of civilization. She looked at Jessica in 
the passenger seat, who was craning her neck out the window. “Is this the right place?” Jessica asked. Charlie shook her head slowly, not quite certain what she was seeing. 
“I don’t know,” she whispered. Charlie got out of the car and stood in silence as John and Carlton 
pulled up beside her. “What is this?” John stepped out of the car cautiously and stared 
blankly at the monument. “Does anyone have a flashlight?” He looked at 
each of them. Carlton held up his key chain and waved around the feeble glow of a 
penlight for a minute. “Great,” John muttered, walking away with resignation. “Hold on a sec,” Charlie said and went around to her trunk. “My aunt 
makes me carry around a bunch of stuff for emergencies.” Aunt Jen, loving but severe, had taught Charlie self-reliance above 
almost anything else. Before she let Charlie have her old blue Honda, she 
had insisted that Charlie know how to change a tire, check the oil, and 
know the basic parts of the engine. In the trunk, in a black box tucked in 
next to the jack, spare tire, and small crowbar; she had a blanket, a heavy 
police-issue flashlight, bottled water, granola bars, matches, and 
emergency flares. Charlie grabbed the flashlight; Carlton grabbed a 
granola bar. Almost by silent agreement, they began to walk the building’s 
perimeter, Charlie holding up the light in a steady beam in front of them. 
The building itself looked mostly finished, but the ground was all dirt 
and rock, uneven and soft. Charlie shone the light on the ground, where 
grass had grown patchy in the dirt, inches long. “No one has been digging for a while,” Charlie said. The place was massive, and it took a long time to circumnavigate. It 
wasn’t long before the rich blue of the evening was overtaken by a 
blanket of scattered silver clouds and stars. The surfaces of the building 
were all the same smooth, beige concrete, with windows too high up on 
the walls to see inside. “Did they really build this whole thing and then just leave?” Jessica 
said. “Carlton,” said John, “you really don’t know anything about what 
happened?” Carlton shrugged expansively. “I told you, I knew there was 
construction, but I don’t know anything else.” “Why would they do this?” John seemed almost paranoid, scouting 
the trees as though eyes might be looking back at him. “It just goes on 
and on.” He squinted, gazing along the outside wall of the building, 
which seemed to stretch endlessly into the distance. He glanced back to the trees as if making sure they hadn’t missed a building somehow. “No, 
it was here.” He placed his hand on the drab concrete facing. “It’s gone.” After a moment, he gestured to the others and began to walk back the 
way they came. Reluctantly, Charlie turned back, following the group. 
They kept going until they could see their cars again up ahead in the 
darkness. “Sorry, guys; I hoped there would at least be something familiar,” 
Carlton said exhaustedly. “Yeah,” Charlie said. She had known it would be, but seeing that 
Freddy’s had been razed to the ground was still a shock. It was so 
paramount, sometimes, in her mind, that she wanted to get rid of it, 
wanted to scrub the memories—good and bad—from her head, as if they 
had never been. Now someone had scrubbed it from the landscape, and it 
felt like a violation. It should have been up to her. Right, she thought, 
because you had the money to buy it and preserve it, like Aunt Jen did 
with the house. “Charlie?” John was saying her name, and it sounded like he was 
repeating it. “Sorry,” she said. “What were you saying?” “Do you want to go inside?” Jessica asked. Charlie was surprised they were only now considering this, but then 
again none of them was usually prone to criminal activity. The thought 
was a release, and she took a deep breath, speaking on her exhale. “Why 
not?” she said, almost laughing. She hefted the flashlight. Her arms were 
getting tired. “Anyone else want a turn?” She waved it back and forth 
like a pendulum. Carlton grabbed it and took a moment to appreciate its weight. “Why is this so heavy?” he said, passing it off to John. “Here you 
go.” “It’s a police flashlight,” Charlie said absently. “You can hit people 
with it.” Jessica wrinkled her nose. “Your aunt really wasn’t kidding around, 
huh? Ever used it?” “Not yet.” Charlie winked and made a half-threatening glance at John, who returned an uncertain half smile, unsure how to react. The wide entrances were sealed with hammered metal doors, no 
doubt intended to be temporary until construction was finished. Still, it 
wasn’t difficult to find a way in, since many large mounds of gravel and 
sand scaled the walls, leading right up to the edges of the large, gaping 
windows. “Not trying hard to keep people out,” John said. “What’s anyone going to steal?” Charlie said, staring at the blank, 
towering walls. They climbed the hills slowly, the gravel shifting and sliding beneath 
their feet as they went. Carlton reached the window first and peered 
through. Jessica looked over his shoulder. “Can we drop down?” John asked. “Yes,” said Carlton. “No,” Jessica said at precisely the same time. “I’ll go,” Charlie said. She felt reckless. Without looking through to 
see how far the fall was, she put her feet through the opening and let 
herself drop. She landed, knees bent; the impact rocked her, but it did not 
hurt. She looked up at her friends staring down. “Oh. Hang on!” Charlie 
called, pulling a short stepladder from a wall nearby and setting it under 
the window. “Okay,” she said. “Come on!” They dropped down one by one, and looked around them. Inside was 
an atrium, or maybe it would have become a food court, with metal 
benches and plastic tables scattered around, some bolted to the floor. The 
ceiling rose up high above them, with a glass roof where they could see 
the stars peering down at them. “Very postapocalyptic,” Charlie joked, her voice echoing in the open 
space. Jessica sang a brief, wordless scale suddenly, startling them all into 
silence. Her voice rang out pure and clear, something beautiful in the 
emptiness. “Very nice, but let’s not call too much attention to ourselves,” John 
said. “Right,” Jessica said, still very happy with herself. As they walked on, Carlton swept up and took her arm. “Your voice is amazing,” he said. “It’s just good acoustics,” Jessica said, attempting humility but not 
meaning a word of it. They walked the empty halls, peering into each of the massive 
cavities where a department store might have been. Some parts of the 
mall had been almost finished, while others were in shambles. Some 
hallways were littered with piles of dusty concrete bricks and stacks of 
wood; others were lined with glass-paneled storefronts, lights hanging in 
perfect rows above their heads. “It’s like a lost city,” John said. “Like Pompeii,” said Jessica, “just without the volcano.” “No,” Charlie said, “there’s nothing here.” The whole place had a 
sterile feel to it. It was not abandoned—it had never sustained life at all. She looked in a store window across from her, one of the few with 
glass, wondering what would have been displayed. She imagined 
mannequins, dressed in bright clothing, but when she tried to picture 
them, all she could see was blank faces, concealing something. She 
suddenly felt out of place, unwelcomed by the building itself. Charlie 
began to feel restless, some of the luster wearing off the adventure. They 
had come; Freddy’s was gone, and so was the shrine she had kept in her 
thoughts, where she could still find Michael playing where she last saw 
him. John stopped suddenly, turning off the flashlight as carefully as he 
could. He put a finger to his lips, motioning for silence. He gestured back 
the way they had come. In the distance, they saw a small light bobbing in 
the darkness like a ship in the fog. “Someone else is here,” he hissed. “A night guard, maybe?” Carlton whispered. “Why would an abandoned building need a guard?” Charlie 
wondered. “Kids probably come here to party,” Carlton said, then grinned. “I 
would have come here to party, too, if I’d known about it, or if I partied.” “Okay, well, let’s backtrack slowly,” John said. “Jessica ...” he started, then made a zip-it motion across his lips. They continued down the hallway, this time with only the dimmer 
light of Carlton’s key chain. “Wait.” Jessica stopped with a whisper, looking intently at the walls 
surrounding them. “Something’s not right.” “Yeah, no giant pretzels. I know.” Carlton seemed sincere. Jessica 
waved a hand at him impatiently. “No, something isn’t right about the architecture.” She took several 
steps back, trying to see the whole of it. “Something is definitely not 
right,” she repeated. “It’s bigger on the outside.” “Bigger on the outside?” Charlie repeated, sounding puzzled. “I mean there’s a big difference between where the inside wall is and 
where the outside wall is. Look.” Jessica ran along a length of wall 
between where two stores would have been. “There would have been a store here and a store there.” John pointed 
to the obvious, not understanding the problem. “But there’s something in the middle!” Jessica exclaimed, beating her 
hands against an empty portion of the wall. “This part juts out into the 
parking lot like the stores on each side, but there’s no way into it.” “You’re right.” Charlie started walking toward Jessica, studying the 
walls. “There should be another entrance here.” “And”—Jessica dropped her voice so that only Charlie could hear her 
—“about the same size as Freddy’s, don’t you think?” Charlie’s eyes 
widened, and she took a quick step back from Jessica. “What are you two whispering about?” Carlton stepped closer. “We’re talking about you,” Jessica said sharply, and they walked into 
one of the vacant department stores that seemed to sandwich the sealed 
space. “Come on,” she said, “let’s take a look.” They started combing the 
wall as a group, clustered around the tiny light. Charlie was not sure what to hope for. Aunt Jen had warned her about 
coming back. She didn’t encourage Charlie to skip the memorial, not 
directly, but she wasn’t pleased that Charlie was returning to Hurricane. Just be careful, Aunt Jen had said. Some things, some memories, are 
best left undisturbed. Is that why you kept Dad’s house? Charlie thought now. Is that why 
you kept paying for it, leaving it untouched like some kind of shrine, but 
never visiting? “Hey!” John was gesturing wildly, running inside to catch up to the 
rest of them. “Hide!” The light was out in the hall again, bobbing up and down, and it was 
coming closer. Charlie glanced around. They were already too deep 
inside the massive store to get out in time, and there seemed to be 
nowhere to hide. “Here, here!” Jessica whispered. There was a break in the wall beside 
a rig of scaffolding, and they hurried into it, squeezing past stacks of 
open boxes and sheets of plastic hanging from the ceiling. They made their way down what appeared to be a makeshift hallway 
just on the other side of the department store wall. It was really more like 
an alley; it was incongruous with the rest of the mall, not shiny and new 
but dank and musty. One wall was made of the same concrete as the 
outside of the building, though it was rough and unfinished, and the other 
was exposed brick, some parts faded smooth with age, others with the 
mortar crumbling, leaving chinks and holes. Heavy wooden shelves of 
cleaning equipment stood against the wall, listing to the side, their boards 
sinking under the weight of old paint cans and mysterious buckets. 
Something was dripping from uncovered pipes overhead, leaving 
puddles that they all stepped carefully around. A mouse scuttled by, 
almost running over Carlton’s foot. Carlton made a strangled sound, 
hand over his mouth. They crouched down behind one of the wooden shelving units, 
pressing up against the wall. Charlie doused the light and waited. She took shallow breaths, perfecdy still, watching and wishing she 
had picked a better position to freeze into. After a few minutes, her legs 
started to feel numb under her, and Carlton was so close that she could 
smell the light, pleasant scent of his shampoo. “That’s nice,” she 
whispered. “Thanks,” Carlton said, knowing immediately what she was referring 
to. “It comes in Ocean Breeze and Tropical Paradise. I prefer Ocean Breeze, but it dries the scalp.” “Hush!” John hissed. Charlie wasn’t sure why she was so worried. It was just a night 
guard, and at the worst they would be asked to leave, maybe yelled at a 
little. She had an overblown aversion to getting in trouble. The bobbing light came closer. Charlie was acutely aware of her 
body, holding every muscle motionless. Suddenly she could make out a 
thin figure leaning in from the great room outside. He shone his light in a 
long beam down the hallway, sweeping it up and down the walls. He’s 
got us, Charlie thought, but inexplicably he turned and went, apparently 
satisfied. They waited another few minutes, but there was nothing. He was 
gone. They all moved slowly out of their crouched positions, stretching 
limbs that had gone to sleep. Carlton shook one foot vigorously until he 
could stand on it. Charlie looked down at Jessica, who was still hunched 
over, as if frozen in time. “Jessica, are you okay?” she whispered. Jessica looked up, smiling. “You won’t believe this.” She was pointing at the wall, and Charlie leaned over to see. There, 
etched in the worn brick, were clumsy letters, almost illegible in a child’s 
handiwork: Carlton smells like feet. “You have to be kidding me,” John whispered in awe, turning to face 
the wall and placing both hands against it. “I recognize these bricks.” He 
laughed. “These are the same bricks!” His smile faded. “They didn’t tear 
it down; they built around it.” “It’s still here!” Jessica unsuccessfully tried to keep her voice down. 
“There has to be a way in,” she added, her eyes wide with an almost 
childish excitement. Charlie shone the flashlight up and down the hallway, playing the 
light off each wall, but there was no break, no door. “There was a back door to Freddy’s,” John said. “Marla wrote that 
right next to the back door, right?” “Why didn’t they just knock it down?” Charlie pondered. “Does this hallway just lead nowhere?” Jessica said, puzzled. “It’s the story of my life,” Carlton said lightly. “Wait ...” Charlie ran her fingers along the edge of a shelf, peering 
through the odds and ends crammed onto it. The wall behind it looked 
different; it was metal, not brick. “Right here.” She stepped back and 
looked at the others. “Help me move it.” John and Jessica pressed against one side in a unified effort, and she 
and Carlton pulled on the other. It was immensely heavy, laden with 
cleaning supplies and large buckets of nails and tools, but it slid farther 
down the hall almost easily, without incident. Jessica stepped back, breathing hard. “John, give me the big light 
again.” He handed it over, and she turned it back on, aiming where the 
shelf had stood. “This is it,” she said. It was metal and rusting, spattered with paint, a stark contrast to the 
walls around it. There was only a hole where the handle had been; 
someone must have removed it so the shelf could lie flush against the 
door. Silently Charlie handed the flashlight back to John, and he held it 
above her head so she could see. She slipped around the others and tried 
to squeeze her fingers into the hole where the doorknob once was, trying 
to pull it open to no avail. “It’s not going to open,” she said. John was behind her, peering over 
her shoulder. “Just a second.” He squeezed himself into the space beside her and 
knelt carefully. “I don’t think it’s locked or anything,” he said. “I think 
it’s just rusty. Look at it.” The door extended all the way to the floor, its bottom ragged and 
unfinished. The hinges were on the other side, and the edges were caked 
in rust. It looked as though it had not been opened in years. John and 
Charlie pulled on it together, and it moved a fraction of an inch. “Yay!” Jessica exclaimed, almost shouting, then covered her mouth. 
“Sorry,” she said in a whisper. “Containing my excitement.” They took turns pulling on it, leaning over one another, the metal scraping their fingers. The door held for a long moment, and then it came 
loose under their weight, swinging open slowly with an unearthly 
screech. Charlie looked nervously over her shoulder, but the guard did 
not appear. The door opened only about a foot wide, and they went one 
by one, until all four were through. Inside, the air changed, and they all stopped short. Ahead of them 
was a dark hallway, familiar to them all. “Is this ... ?” Jessica whispered, not taking her eyes from the dark 
expanse. It’s here, Charlie thought. She held out her hand for the flashlight, 
and John handed it to her wordlessly. She shone the light ahead of them, 
sweeping the walls. They were covered in children’s drawings, crayon on 
yellowing, curling paper. She started forward, and the others followed, 
feet shuffling on old tile. It seemed to take forever to traverse the hall, or perhaps it was just 
that they were moving slowly, with methodical, deliberate steps. 
Eventually the hallway opened up into a larger expanse—the dining 
room. It was just as they remembered it, completely preserved. The 
flashlight beam bounced off a thousand little things reflective, glittered, 
or topped with foil ribbon. The tables were still in place, covered in their silver-and-white 
checked cloths; the chairs were pulled up to them haphazardly, some 
tables with too many and others with too few. It looked as though the 
room had been abandoned in the middle of the lunch hour: Everyone had 
gotten up expecting to return, but never did. They walked in cautiously, 
breathing cold, stale air that had been trapped inside for a decade. The 
whole restaurant gave off a sense of abandonment—no one was coming 
back. There was a small merry-go-round barely visible in the distant 
corner, with four child-size ponies still at rest from their last song. In an 
instant, Charlie froze in place, as did the others. There they were. Eyes stared back from the dark, large and lifeless. 
An illogical panic pulsed through her; time held still. No one spoke; no 
one breathed, as though a predatory animal was stalking them. But as the 
moments passed, the fear waned, until she was back again, as a child, and with old friends, separated from one another for far too long. Charlie 
walked toward the eyes in a straight line. Behind her the others were 
motionless; hers were the only footsteps. As Charlie walked, she touched 
the cold back of an old party chair without looking at it, guiding it out of 
her path. She took one final step, and the eyes in the dark became clear. 
It was them. Charlie smiled. “Hi,” she whispered, too soft for the others to hear. Before her stood three animatronic animals: a bear, a rabbit, and a 
chicken, all standing as tall as adults, maybe taller. Their bodies were 
segmented like artists’ models, each limb made of distinct, squarish 
pieces, separate at the joints. They belonged to the restaurant, or maybe 
the restaurant belonged to them, and there had been a time when 
everyone knew them by name. There was Bonnie, the rabbit. His fur was 
a bright blue, his squared-off muzzle held a permanent smile, and his 
wide and chipped pink eyes were thick-lidded, giving him a perpetually 
worn-out expression. His ears stuck up straight, crinkling over at the top, 
and his large feet splayed out for balance. He held a red bass guitar, blue 
paws poised to play, and around his neck was a bow tie that matched the 
instrument’s fiery color. Chica the Chicken was more bulky and had an apprehensive look, 
thick black eyebrows arching over her purple eyes and her beak slightly 
open, revealing teeth, as she held out a cupcake on a platter. The cupcake 
itself was somewhat disturbing, with eyes set into its pink frosting and 
teeth hanging out over the cake, a single candle sticking out the top. “I always expected the cupcake to jump off the plate.” Carlton gave a 
half laugh and cautiously stepped up to Charlie’s side. “They seem taller 
than I remember,” he added in a whisper. “That’s because you never got this close as a kid.” Charlie smiled, at 
ease, and stepped closer. “You were busy hiding under tables,” Jessica said from behind them, 
still some distance away. Chica wore a bib around her neck with the words LET’S eat! set out 
in purple and yellow against a confetti-covered background. A tuft of 
feathers stuck up in the middle of her head. Standing between Bonnie and Chica was Freddy Fazbear himself, 
namesake of the restaurant. He was the most genial looking of the three, 
seeming at ease where he was. A robust, if lean, brown bear, he smiled 
down at the audience, holding a microphone in one paw, sporting a black 
bow tie and top hat. The only incongruity in his features was the color of 
his eyes, a bright blue that surely no bear had ever had before him. His 
mouth hung open, and his eyes were partially closed, as though he had 
been frozen in song. Carlton drew closer to the stage until his knees pressed against the 
rim of it. “Hey, Freddy,” he whispered. “Long time no see.” He reached out and grabbed at the microphone, wiggling it to see if 
he could get it loose. “Don’t!” Charlie blurted, looking up into Freddy’s fixed gaze as 
though making sure he hadn’t noticed. Carlton pulled his hand back like he had touched something hot. 
“Sorry.” “Come on,” John said, cracking a smile. “Don’t you want to see the 
rest of the place?” They spread out across the room, peering into corners and carefully 
trying doors, acting as though everything might be breakable to the 
touch. John went over to the small carousel, and Carlton disappeared into 
the dark arcade off the main room. “I remember it being a lot brighter and noisier in here.” Carlton 
smiled as though at home again, running his hands over the aging knobs 
and flat plastic buttons. “I wonder if my high scores are still in there,” he 
muttered to himself. To the left of the stage was a small hallway. Half hoping no one 
would notice where she had gone, Charlie started down it silently as the 
others occupied themselves with their own curiosities. At the end of the 
short, plain corridor was her father’s office. It had been Charlie’s favorite 
place in the restaurant. She liked to play with her friends in the main 
area, but she loved the singular privilege of coming back here when her 
father was doing paperwork. She paused outside the closed door, her 
hand poised over the knob, remembering. Most of the room was filled with his desk, his filing cabinets, and small boxes of uninteresting parts. 
In one comer was a smaller filing cabinet, painted a salmon color that 
Charlie had always insisted was pink. That had been Charlie’s. The 
bottom drawer held toys and crayons, and the top had what she liked to 
call “my paperwork.” It was mostly coloring books and drawings, but 
occasionally she would go over to her father’s desk and try to copy down 
whatever he was writing in a childish, crayoned hand. Charlie tried the 
door, but it was locked. Better this way, she thought. The office was 
personal, and she did not really want it opened tonight. She headed back into the main dining room and found John looking 
pensively at the merry-go-round. He eyed her with curiosity but did not 
ask where she had gone. “I used to love this thing.” Charlie smiled, approaching warmly. Yet 
now the painted figures seemed odd and lifeless to her. John made a face, as though he knew what she was thinking. “Not the same,” he said. He rubbed his hand over the top of a 
polished pony as though to scratch it behind the ear. “Just not the same,” 
he repeated, removing his hand and gazing elsewhere. Charlie glanced 
over to see where the others were—in the arcade, she could see Jessica 
and Carlton wandering among the games. The consoles stood still and unlit like massive tombstones, their 
screens blank. “I never liked playing the games,” Jessica said, smiling. 
“They moved too fast, and just when I’d start to figure out what to do, 
I’d die and it would be someone else’s turn.” She wiggled a joystick that 
squeaked from neglect. “They were rigged anyway,” Carlton said with a wink. “When’s the last time you played one of these?” Jessica asked, 
peering closely into one of the screens to see what image was burned into 
it from too many years of use. Carlton was busy rocking a pinball 
machine back and forth, trying to get a ball to come loose. “Uh, there’s a pizza place I visit sometimes.” He set the table back on 
four legs carefully and glanced at Jessica. “But it’s no Freddy’s,” he 
added. John was roaming through the dining room again amid the tables, flicking the stars and spirals hanging overhead. He plucked a red party 
hat from the table, stretched the rubber band hanging loosely from its 
base, and snapped it around his head, red-and-white tassels hanging 
down over his face. “Oh, let’s check out the kitchen,” he said. Charlie followed as he 
bounded off toward it. Although the kitchen had been off-limits to her friends, she’d spent a 
lot of time there, so much so that the chefs chased her out by name, or at 
least by the name they heard her father call her: Charlotte. John 
overheard someone calling her Charlotte one day when they were in 
kindergarten and persisted in teasing her with it constantly. He could 
always get a rise out of her with that. It wasn’t that Charlie didn’t like her 
full name, but Charlie was who she was to the world. Her father called 
her Charlotte, and it was like a secret between them, something no one 
else was allowed to share. The day she left Hurricane for good, the day 
they said good-bye, John had hesitated. “Bye, Charlie,” he said. In their cards, letters, and phone calls, he had 
never called her Charlotte again. She never asked why, and he never told 
her. The kitchen was still fully stocked with pots and pans, but it held 
little interest for Charlie in the midst of her memories. She headed back 
out into the open space of the dining room, and John followed. At the 
same time, Jessica and Carlton stumbled out of the arcade, tripping into 
each other as they crossed the thresholds between rooms in the dark. “Anything interesting?” John asked. “Uh, a gum wrapper, thirty cents, and Jessica, so no, not really,” 
Carlton said. Jessica playfully gave him a punch in the shoulder. “Oh, have we all forgotten?” Jessica gave an evil smile, pointing to 
another hallway on the opposite side of the dining room. She headed 
toward it swiftly before anyone could answer, and they followed her. The 
hallway was long and narrow, and the farther they went, the less the 
flashlight seemed to illuminate. At last the passage opened out into a 
small room for private parties, set up with its own tables and chairs. As 
they entered, there was a collective hush. There in front of them was a small stage, the curtain drawn. A sign was strung across the front, out 
OF order, it read in neat, handwritten letters. They stood still for a 
minute, then Jessica went up to it and poked the sign. “Pirate’s Cove,” she said. “Ten years later and it’s still out of order.” Don’t touch it, Charlie thought. “I had one birthday back here,” John said. “It was out of order then, 
too.” He took hold of the edge of the curtain and rubbed the glittered 
fabric between his fingers. No, Charlie wanted to say again, but stopped. You’re being silly, she 
chided herself. “Do you think he’s still back there?” Jessica said playfully, 
threatening to make the reveal with one giant swing on the curtain. “I’m sure he is.” John gave a false smile, seeming uncomfortable for 
the first time. Yes, he’s still there, Charlie thought. She stepped back cautiously, 
suddenly becoming aware of the drawings and posters surrounding them 
like spiders on the wall. Charlie’s flashlight carefully inched from picture 
to picture, all depicting different variations of the same character: a large 
and energetic pirate fox with a patch over one eye and a hook for a hand, 
usually swinging in to deliver a pizza to hungry children. “This is the room where you were the one hiding under tables,” 
Jessica said to Charlie, trying to laugh. “But you’re a big girl now, 
right?” Jessica climbed up on the stage unsteadily, almost losing her 
footing. John reached out a hand to steady her as she righted herself. She 
giggled nervously, looking down at the others as though for guidance, 
than grabbed hold of the tasseled edge of the fabric. She waved her other 
hand in front of her face as dust fell from the cloth. “Maybe this isn’t a good idea?” She laughed, but there was an edge 
to her voice, like she really meant it, and she looked down at the stage 
for a moment, as though poised to climb back down. Still, she didn’t 
move, taking the edge of the curtain again. “Wait,” John said. “Can you hear that?” They were all dead quiet, and in the silence Charlie could hear them 
all breathing. John’s breaths were deliberate and calm, Jessica’s quick and nervous. As she thought about it, her own breathing began to feel 
odd, like she had forgotten how to do it. “I don’t hear anything,” she said. “Me neither,” Jessica echoed. “What is it?” “Music. It’s coming from—•” He gestured back the way they had 
come. “From the stage?” Charlie cocked her head to the side. “I don’t hear 
it.” “It’s like a music box,” he said. Charlie and Jessica listened carefully, 
but their blank expressions didn’t change. “It stopped, I guess.” John 
returned his gaze forward. “Maybe it was an ice cream truck,” Jessica whispered. “Hey, that wouldn’t be so bad right now.” John appreciated the 
levity. Jessica turned her attention back to the curtain, but John began to 
hum a tune to himself. “It reminded me of something,” he mumbled. “Okay, here I go!” Jessica announced. She did not move. Charlie 
found her eyes drawn to Jessica’s hand on the curtain, her pink, 
manicured nails pale against the dark, glittery fabric. It was almost like 
the hushed moment in a theater crowd, when the lights went dark but the 
curtain had not yet risen. They were all still, all anticipating, but they 
were not watching a play, no longer playing a game. All the mirth had 
gone out of Jessica’s face; her cheekbones stood out stark in the 
shadows, and her eyes looked grim as though the simple thing she was 
about to do might be of terrible consequence. As Jessica hesitated, 
Charlie realized her hand hurt; she was making a fist so tight her nails 
dug into her flesh, but she could not force her grip to loosen. A crash sounded from back the way they came, a cascading, clanging 
noise ringing out and filling the whole space. John and Charlie froze, 
meeting each other’s eyes in sudden panic. Jessica dropped the curtain 
and leaped off the stage, bumping into Charlie and knocking the light out 
of her hands. “Where’s the way out?!” she exclaimed, and John came over to help. 
They hurriedly searched the walls, and Charlie chased the light beam spiraling across the floor. Just as they were all back to their feet, Carlton 
came trotting in. “I knocked over a bunch of pots in the kitchen!” he exclaimed, an 
apology amid the panic. “I thought you were with us,” Charlie said. “I wanted to see if there was any food left,” Carlton said, not making 
it clear if he’d found anything or not. “Seriously?” John laughed. “That guard might have heard,” Jessica said anxiously. “We have to 
get out of here.” They started for the door, and Jessica started running. The rest took 
off after her, picking up speed as they reached the hallway until they 
were racing as though something were behind them. “Run, run!” John called out, and they all burst into giggles, the panic 
feigned but the urgency real. They squeezed back through the door one by one and pushed it shut 
with the same painful squeal, Carlton and John leaning on it until it 
sealed. They all took hold of the shelf, hefting it back into place and 
replacing the tools so that it appeared undisturbed. “Look good?” Jessica said, and John tugged her arm, guiding her 
away. They made their way quickly but carefully back the way they came 
using only Carlton’s penlight, back through the empty hallways and the 
open atrium to the parking lot. The guard’s light did not appear again. “Litde anticlimactic,” Carlton said with disappointment, checking 
back one more time in hopes they were being chased. “Are you kidding?” Charlie said as she went to her car, already 
pulling the keys free from her pocket. She felt as though something 
locked deep inside her had been disturbed, and she was not sure if that 
was a good thing or not. “That was fun!” John exclaimed, and Jessica laughed. “That was terrifying!” she cried. “It can be both,” Carlton said, grinning widely. Charlie began to 
laugh, and John joined in. “What?” Jessica said. Charlie shook her head, still laughing a little. “It’s just ... we’re all exactly the same as we were. I mean, we’re 
totally different and older and everything. But we’re the same. You and 
Carlton sound exactly like you did when we were six.” “Right,” Jessica said, rolling her eyes again, but John nodded. “I know what you mean,” he said. “And so does Jessica, she just 
doesn’t like to admit it.” He glanced back at the mall. “Is everybody sure 
that guard didn’t see us?” “We can outrun him now,” Carlton said reasonably, his hand resting 
on the car. “I guess,” John said, but he did not sound convinced. “You haven’t changed, either, you know,” Jessica said with a certain 
satisfaction. “Stop looking for problems where there aren’t any.” “Still,” John said, glancing back again. “We should get out of here. I 
don’t want to push our luck.” “See you all tomorrow, then?” Jessica said as they parted ways. 
Carlton gave a little wave over his shoulder. Charlie’s heart sank a little as Jessica settled herself into the 
passenger seat, tidily buckling herself in. She had not been looking 
forward to this. It wasn’t that she didn’t like Jessica, just that being alone 
with her was uncomfortable. She still wasn’t much more than a stranger. 
Yet Charlie was still exhilarated from the night’s adventure, and the 
lingering adrenaline gave her a new confidence. She smiled at Jessica. 
After tonight, they suddenly had something very much in common. “Do you know which way the motel is?” she asked, and Jessica 
nodded and reached for the purse down at her feet. It was small and 
black with a long strap, and on the drive to the construction site Charlie 
had already seen her remove a lip gloss, a mirror, a pack of breath mints, 
a sewing kit, and a tiny hairbrush. Now she pulled out a small notebook 
and pen. Charlie smiled. “Sorry, how much stuff do you have in that thing?” she asked, and 
Jessica looked at her with a grin. “The secrets of The Purse must not be disclosed,” she said playfully, 
and they both laughed. Jessica started reading Charlie the directions, and Charlie obeyed, turning left and right without paying much attention to 
her surroundings. 
Jessica had already checked in, so they went straight to their room, a 
small beige box of a room with two double beds covered in shiny brown 
spreads. Charlie set her bags on the bed closest to the door, and Jessica 
went to the window. “As you can see, I splurged on the room with the view,” she said and 
flung the curtains open dramatically to reveal two Dumpsters and a 
dried-out hedge. “I want to have my wedding here.” “Right,” Charlie said, amused. Jessica’s prim demeanor and fashion- 
model looks made it easy to forget that she was smart as well. As a child 
she remembered being slightly intimidated every time they got together 
to play before realizing after the first few minutes how much she liked 
Jessica. She wondered if it was hard for Jessica to make friends, looking 
the way she did, but it wasn’t the kind of thing you could really ask 
someone. Jessica flopped down on the bed, lying across it to face Charlie. “So 
tell me about you,” she said confidentially, mocking a talk-show host or 
someone’s nosy mother. Charlie shrugged awkwardly, put on the spot. “What does that 
mean?” she said. Jessica laughed. “I don’t know! What an awful thing to ask, right? I 
mean, how do you answer that? Um, how about school? Any cute boys?” Charlie lay down across the bed, mimicking Jessica’s position. “Cute 
boys? What are we, twelve?” “Well?” Jessica said impatiently. “I don’t know,” she said. “Not really.” Her class was too small. She 
had known most of the people in it since she moved in with Aunt Jen, 
and dating anyone, liking them “like that,” seemed forced and altogether 
unappealing. She told Jessica as much. “Most of the girls, if they want to 
date, they date older guys,” she said. “And you don’t have an older guy?” Jessica teased. “Nah,” Charlie said. “I figured I’d wait around for our batch to grow 
up.” “Right!” Jessica burst out laughing before quickly thinking of 
something to share. “Last year there was this guy, Donnie,” she said. “I 
was gaga for him, like, really. He was so sweet to everyone. He wore all 
black all the time, and he had this black curly hair so thick all I could 
think about when I sat behind him was burying my face in it. I was so 
distracted I ended up with an A minus in trig. He was super artistic, a 
poet, and he carried around one of those black leather notebooks, and he 
was always scribbling something in it, but he would never show 
anybody.” She sighed dreamily. “I figured if I could get him to show me 
his poetry, I would really come to know his soul, you know?” “So did he ever?” Charlie said. “Oh yeah,” she said, nodding emphatically. “I asked him out finally, 
you know, ’cause he was shy and he was never gonna ask me, and we 
went to the movies and made out a little, and then we went and hung out 
on the roof of his apartment building and I told him all about how I want 
to study ancient civilizations and go on archaeological digs and stuff. 
And he showed me his poems.” “And did you come to know his soul?” Charlie said, excited to be 
included in girl talk, something she felt like she’d never really gotten to 
participate in before. Charlie nodded eagerly. But not too eagerly. She 
calmed herself as Jessica scooted forward on the bed to whisper. “The poems were awful. I didn’t know it was possible to be both 
melodramatic and boring at the same time. I mean, like, just reading 
them made me embarrassed for him.” She covered her face in her hands. 
Charlie laughed. “What did you do?” “What could I do? I told him it wasn’t gonna work out and went 
home.” “Wait, right after you read his poetry?” “I still had the notebook in my hand.” “Oh no, Jessica, that’s awful! You must have broken his heart!” “I know! I felt so bad, but it was like the words just came out of my mouth. I couldn’t stop myself.” “Did he ever speak to you again?” “Oh yeah, he’s perfectly nice. But now he takes statistics and 
economics and wears sweater vests.” “You broke him!” Charlie threw a pillow at Jessica, who sat up and 
caught it. “I know! He’ll probably be a millionaire stockbroker instead of a 
starving artist, and it’s all my fault.” She grinned. “Come on, he’ll thank 
me someday.” Charlie shook her head. “Do you really want to be an archaeologist?” “Yeah,” Jessica said. “Huh,” said Charlie. “Sorry, I thought—” She shook her head. 
“Sorry, that is really cool.” “You thought I’d want to do something in fashion,” Jessica said. “Well, yeah.” “It’s okay,” Jessica said. “I did, too. I mean, I do, I love fashion, but 
there’s only so much to it, you know? I think it’s amazing to think about 
how people lived a thousand years ago, or two thousand, or ten. They 
were just like us, but so different. I like to imagine living in other times, 
other places, wonder who I would have been. Anyway, what about you?” Charlie rolled over onto her back, looking up at the ceiling. The tiles 
were made of loose, stained Styrofoam, and the one above her head was 
askew. I hope there aren’t any bugs up in there, she thought. “I don’t know,” she said slowly. “I think it’s really cool that you 
know who you want to be, but I have just never had that kind of a plan.” “Well, it’s not like you have to figure it out now,” Jessica said. “Maybe,” Charlie said. “But I don’t know, you know what you want 
to do, John’s known since he could hold a pencil that he wanted to be a 
writer and he’s already getting published, even Carlton—I don’t know 
what he has planned, but you can just see that there’s a scheme brewing 
behind all his kidding around. But I just don’t have that kind of 
direction.” “It really doesn’t matter,” Jessica said. “I don’t think most people 
know at our age. Plus, I might change my mind, or not get into college, or something. You never know what’s going to happen. Hey, I’m gonna 
get changed. I want to get some sleep.” She went into the bathroom, and Charlie stayed where she was, 
gazing at the sorry-looking ceiling. She supposed it was becoming a 
defect, her earnest refusal to consider the past or future. Live in the 
present moment, her Aunt Jen said often, and Charlie had taken it to 
heart. Don’t dwell on the past; don’t worry about things that may never 
happen. In eighth grade she had taken a shop class, vaguely hoping the 
mechanical work might spark something of her father’s talent, might 
unleash some inherited passion lying latent within her, but it had not. She 
had made a clumsy-looking birdhouse for the backyard. She never took 
another shop class, and the birdhouse only attracted one squirrel who 
promptly knocked it down. Jessica came out of the bathroom wearing pink striped pajamas, and 
Charlie went in to get ready for bed, changing and brushing her teeth 
hurriedly. When she came out again, Jessica was already under the 
covers with the light by her bed turned off. Charlie turned hers off, too, 
but the light from the parking lot still shone in from the window, 
somehow filtering past the Dumpsters. Charlie stared up at the ceiling again, her hands behind her head. “Do you know what’s going to happen tomorrow?” she asked. “I don’t really know,” Jessica said. “I know it’s a ceremony at the 
school.” “Yeah, I know that,” Charlie said. “Are we going to have to do 
anything? Like, do they want us to speak?” “I don’t think so,” Jessica said. “Why, do you want to say 
something?” “No, I was just wondering.” “Do you ever think about him?” Jessica asked. “Sometimes. I try not to,” Charlie said half-truthfully. She had sealed 
off the subject of Michael in her mind, locked him tight behind a mental 
wall she never touched. It wasn’t an effort to avoid the subject; in fact, it 
was an effort to think of him now. “What about you?” she asked Jessica. “Not really,” she said. “It’s weird, right? Something happens, and it’s the worst thing you can ever imagine, and it’s just burned into you at the 
time, like it’s going to go on forever. And then the years go by, and it’s 
just another thing that happened. Not like it’s not important, or terrible, 
but it’s in the past, just as much as everything else. You know?” “I guess,” Charlie said. But she did know. “I just try not to think 
about those things.” “Me too. You know I just went to a funeral last week?” “I’m sorry,” Charlie said, sitting up. “Are you okay?” “Yeah, I’m fine,” Jessica said. “I barely even knew him; he was just 
an old relative who lived three states away. I think I met him once, but I 
hardly remember it. We mostly went for my mom’s sake. But it was at an 
old-fashioned funeral parlor, like in the movies, with an open coffin. And 
we all walked by the coffin, and when it was my turn I looked at him, 
and he could have been sleeping, you know? Just calm and restful, like 
people always say dead people look. There was nothing that I could have 
pointed out that made me think dead, if you asked me; every feature of 
his face looked the same as if he were alive. His skin was the same; his 
hair was the same as if he were alive. But he wasn’t alive, and I just 
knew it. I would have known it immediately, even if he wasn’t, you 
know, in a coffin.” “I know what you mean. There is something about them when they’re 
Charlie said softly. “It sounds stupid when I say it. But when I looked at him, he looked 
so alive, and yet I knew, just knew that he wasn’t. It made my skin 
crawl.” “That’s the worst thing, isn’t it?” Charlie said. “Things that act alive 
but aren’t.” “What?” Jessica said. “I mean things that look alive but aren’t,” Charlie said quickly. “We 
should get some sleep,” she said. “Did you set the alarm?” “Yes,” Jessica said. “Good night.” “Night.” Charlie knew sleep was still a long way off. She knew what Jessica 
meant, probably better than Jessica did. The artificial shine in eyes that followed you as you moved, just like a real person’s would. The slight 
lurch of realistic animals who did not move the way a living thing 
should. The occasional programming glitch that made a robot appear to 
have done something new, creative. Her childhood had been filled with 
them; she had grown up in the strange gap between life and not-life. It 
had been her world. It had been her father’s world. Charlie closed her 
eyes. What did that world do to him ? 
Thud. Thud. Thud. Charlie startled out of sleep, disoriented. Something was banging on 
her door, trying to force its way in. “Oh, for goodness’ sake,” Jessica said grumpily, and Charlie blinked 
and sat up. Right. The motel. Hurricane. Someone was knocking on the door. As 
Jessica went to answer it, Charlie got out of bed and looked at the clock. 
It was 10:00 a.m. She looked out the window at the bright new day. She 
had slept worse than usual, not nightmares, but dark dreams she could 
not quite remember, things that stuck with her just beyond the back of 
her mind, images she could not catch. “Charlieeeee!” someone was screeching. Charlie went to the door and 
found herself immediately enveloped in a hug, Marla’s plump arms 
gripping her like a vise. Charlie hugged her back, tighter than she meant 
to. When Marla let go, she stepped back, grinning. Marla’s moods had 
always been so intense they were contagious, spreading out to whoever 
was in her path. When she was gloomy, a pall fell over all her friends, 
the sun gone behind her cloud. When she was happy, like now, it was 
impossible to avoid the lift of her joy. She was always breathless, always 
slightly scattered, always giving the impression that she was running 
late, though she almost never was. Marla was wearing a loose dark-red 
blouse, and it suited her well, setting off her fair skin and dark-brown 
hair. Charlie had kept in better touch with Marla than the others. Marla 
was the type who made it easy to stay friends, even at a distance. Even as 
a little kid she was always sending letters and postcards, undeterred if 
Charlie didn’t respond to every one. She was resolutely positive and 
assumed that everyone liked her unless they made it clear otherwise, 
using the proper expletives. Charlie admired it about her—she herself, 
though not shy, was always calculating: Does that person like me? Are 
they just being polite? How do people tell the difference? Marla had 
come to visit her once when they were twelve. She had charmed 
Charlie’s aunt and made fast friends with her school friends while still 
making it abundandy clear that she was Charlie’s friend, and she was 
there only to see Charlie. Marla’s gigantic smile turned serious as she studied Charlie, peering 
at her as if trying to spot the differences since they last met. “You’re as 
pale as ever.” She took Charlie’s hands in her own. “And you’re all 
clammy. Don’t you ever get warm?” She dropped Charlie’s hands and 
proceeded to study the motel room skeptically, as though uncertain 
exactly what it was. “It’s the luxury suite,” Jessica said without expression as she 
searched for something in her bag. Her hair was sticking up in all 
directions, and Charlie stifled a smile. It was nice to see something about 
Jessica in disarray for once. Jessica found her hairbrush and held it up 
triumphantly. “Ha! Take that, morning frizz!” “Come on in,” Charlie said, realizing she and Marla were still in the 
doorway, the door wide open. Marla nodded. “One sec. JASON!” she shouted out the door. No one emerged. 
“JASON!” A young boy came trotting up from the road. He was short and wiry, darker-skinned than his half sister. His Batman T-shirt and black shorts 
were made for someone twice his size. His hair was cut close to his head, 
and his arms and legs were streaked with dirt. “Were you playing in the road?” Marla demanded. “No?” he said. “Yes, you were. Don’t do that. If you get yourself killed, Mom’s 
gonna blame me. Get inside.” Marla shoved her little brother inside and 
shook her head. “How old are you now?” Charlie asked. “Eleven,” Jason said. He went to the TV and started fiddling with 
buttons. “Jason, stop it,” Marla said. “Play with your action figures.” “I’m not a little kid,” he said. “Anyway, they’re in the car.” But he 
stepped away from the television and went to look out the window. Marla rubbed her eyes. “We just got here. We had to leave at six this 
morning, and someone,” she said pointedly, glancing over her shoulder at 
Jason, “wouldn’t stop fiddling with the radio. I am so tired.” She didn’t 
seem tired, but then she never did. At their sleepovers as kids, Charlie 
remembered her bouncing around like a maniac while the rest of them 
were winding down for the night—then falling asleep abruptly, like a 
cartoon character who’d been hit over the head with a rolling pin. “We should get ready,” Jessica said. “We’re supposed to meet the 
guys at the diner in an hour.” “Hurry!” Marla said. “We have to change, too. I didn’t want to get all 
gross while we were driving.” “Jason, you can watch TV,” Charlie said, and he looked at Marla. She 
nodded, and he grinned and turned it on, starting to flip through 
channels. “Please just pick a channel,” Marla said. Charlie headed into the 
bathroom to get dressed while Jessica fussed with her hair. 
A little less than an hour later, they pulled into the diner parking lot. The 
others were already there, in the same booth they’d been in the night before. When they got inside, Marla performed a second round of 
squeals and hugs, only slightly quieter now that they were in public. 
Overshadowed by her enthusiasm, Lamar stood and waved at Jessica and 
Charlie, waiting until Marla sat down. “Hi, guys,” he said at last. He was wearing a dark tie and a dark gray 
suit. He was tall and thin, black, with his hair shaved close to his head; 
his features were sharp and attractive, and he looked just a little older 
than the rest of them. It could have been the suit, but Charlie thought it 
was something about the way he stood, holding himself like he would be 
comfortable wherever he was. They had all dressed up a little for the ceremony. Marla had changed 
at the motel, and she and Jessica were both wearing dresses. Jessica’s 
was knee-length and covered in pastel flowers, a light fabric that moved 
as she walked. Marla’s was simple, white with big sunflowers splashed 
over it. Charlie hadn’t thought to bring a dress, and she hoped she didn’t 
look out of place in black pants and a white button-down shirt. John was 
wearing a light-purple shirt today, though he’d added a matching tie in a 
slighdy darker color, and Carlton seemed to be wearing an identical 
outfit as before, still all in black. They all sat down. “Well, don’t we all look nice,” Marla said happily. “Where’s Jason?” Jessica craned her head from side to side. Marla groaned. “I’ll be right back.” She scooted out of the booth and 
hurried out the door. “Lamar, what have you been up to?” Charlie asked. Lamar grinned. “He’s an Ivy League-man,” Carlton said, teasing. Lamar looked 
briefly down at the table, but he was smiling. “Early acceptance,” was all he said. “Which one?” Jessica said. “Cornell.” “Wait, how did you already apply to college?” Charlie said. “That’s 
not till next year. I don’t even know where I want to go.” “He skipped sixth grade,” John said. There was a brief flicker of 
something across his face, and Charlie knew what it was. John liked 
being the clever one, the precocious one. Lamar had been kind of a goof- off when they were kids, and now he had leaped ahead. John forced a 
grin, and the moment passed. “Congratulations,” he said, with no hint 
that it was not entirely sincere. Marla came bursting in again, this time towing Jason behind her, 
holding on to his upper arm. At the hotel she had made him change into a 
blazer and khakis as well, though he was still wearing his Nikes. “I’m coming. Stop it,” he whined. “Is that Jason?” Carlton asked. “Yeah,” Jason said. “Do you remember me?” Carlton said. “I don’t remember any of you,” Jason said unapologetically. “Sit there,” Marla said, pointing to the next booth over. “Okay,” he grumbled. “Marla, he can sit with us,” Jessica said. “Jason, come on over.” “I want to sit here,” he said and sat down behind them. He pulled a 
video game out of his pocket and was oblivious to the world. The waitress came over and they ordered; Marla told her to put 
Jason’s breakfast on their check. When their food came, Charlie checked 
her watch. “We don’t have a lot of time,” she said. “We’ll get there,” Carlton said. “It’s not far.” A small piece of food 
fell out of his mouth as he gestured down the road. “Have you been back to the school?” Lamar asked, and Carlton 
shrugged. “I pass it sometimes. I know this is a nostalgia trip for all of you, but 
I just live here. I don’t exactly go around reminiscing about kindergarten 
all the time.” They were all quiet for a second, the beeps and pings of Jason’s video 
game filling the silence. “Hey, did you know Lamar’s going to Cornell next year?” Jessica 
said to Marla. “Really? Well, aren’t you ahead of the pack,” she said. Lamar looked 
down at his plate. When he looked up, he was a little flushed. “All part of the five-year plan,” he said. They laughed, and his blush deepened. “It’s kind of weird to be back here,” he said, hastily changing 
the subject. “I think it’s strange that I’m the only one who still lives here,” 
Carlton said. “Nobody ever leaves Hurricane.” “Is it strange, though?” Jessica said thoughtfully. “My parents—you 
remember, my mom’s from New York originally; she used to joke about 
going back. When I go back to New York, but it might as well have been 
When I win the lottery; she didn’t mean it. And then right after Michael’s 
... right after, she stopped joking about it, then three months later we 
were all on a plane to visit her sister in Queens, and we never came back. 
My dad’s father died when I was nine, and they came back to Hurricane 
for the funeral without me. They didn’t want me coming back here, and 
honestly I didn’t want to go. I was kind of anxious the whole time they 
were gone. I kept looking out the window, hoping they would come back 
early, like something bad was going to happen to them if they stayed.” They looked at one another, considering. Charlie knew they had all 
moved, all but Carlton, but she had never thought about it—people 
moved all the time. Carlton was right, though. People didn’t leave 
Hurricane. “We moved because my dad got a new job, the summer after third 
grade,” John said. “That’s not exactly mysterious. Lamar, you left in the 
middle of the semester that year.” “Yeah,” he said. “But that’s because when my parents split, I went 
with my mom to Indianapolis.” He frowned. “But my dad moved, too. 
He’s in Chicago now.” “My parents left because of Michael,” Marla said. They all turned to 
her. “Afterward, my mom couldn’t sleep. She said spirits were stirring in 
the town, unquiet. My dad told her she was being ridiculous, but we still 
left as fast as we could.” Marla looked around at her friends. “What?” 
she said defensively. “I don’t believe in ghosts.” “I do,” Charlie said. She felt like she was talking from a great 
distance; she was almost surprised they could hear her. “I mean, not 
ghosts, but ... memories. I think they linger, whether there’s someone 
there or not.” The house, her old house, was imbued with memory, with loss, with longing. It hung in the air like humidity; the walls were 
saturated, like the wood had soaked in it. It had been there before she 
came, and it was there now; it would be there forever. It had to be. There 
was too much, too great and vast a weight, for Charlie to have brought it 
with her. “That doesn’t make any sense,” Jessica said. “Memory is in our 
brains. Like, literally stored in the brain; you can see it on a scan. It can’t 
exist outside of someone’s mind.” “I don’t know,” John said. “Think of all the places that have ... 
atmosphere. Old houses, sometimes, places where you walk in and you 
feel sad or nostalgic, even though you’ve never been there before.” “That’s not other people’s memories, though,” Lamar said. “That’s 
subconscious cues, stuff we don’t realize we’re noticing, that tells us we 
should feel some way. Peeling paint, old-fashioned furniture, lace 
curtains, details that tell us to be nostalgic—mostly things we pick up 
from movies, probably. I got lost at a carnival when I was four. I never 
got so scared in my life, but I don’t think anybody’s feeling suddenly 
desperate for their mom when they pass that Ferris wheel.” “Maybe they are,” Marla said. “I don’t know, sometimes I have little 
moments where it’s like there’s something I forgot, something I regret, 
or that I’m happy about, or something that makes me want to cry, but it’s 
only there for a split second. Then it’s gone. Maybe we’re all shedding 
our fear and regret and hope everywhere we go, and we’re catching 
traces of people we’ve never met. Maybe it’s everywhere.” “How is that different from believing in ghosts?” Lamar asked. “It’s totally different,” Marla said. “It’s not supernatural, and it’s not, 
like, the souls of dead people. It’s just ... people leaving their mark on 
the world.” “So it’s the ghosts of living people?” Lamar said. “No.” “You’re talking about people having some kind of essence that can 
hang around a specific place after the person is gone,” Lamar said. 
“That’s a ghost.” “No, it’s not! I’m not saying it right,” Marla said. She closed her eyes for a minute, thinking. “Okay,” she said at last. “Do you all remember 
my grandmother?” “I do,” said Jason. “She was my grandmother, too.” “She was my dad’s mom, not yours,” Marla said. “Anyway, you were 
only a year old when she died.” “I do remember her,” Jason said quietiy. “Okay,” Marla said. “So she collected dolls from the time she was a 
kid. She and my grandfather used to travel a lot after he retired, and 
she’d bring them back from all over the world—she had them from 
France, Egypt, Italy, Brazil, China, everywhere. She kept them in their 
own special room, and it was full of them, shelves and shelves of dolls, 
some tiny and some almost as big as I was. I loved it; one of my earliest 
memories is playing in that room with the dolls. I remember my dad 
would always warn me to be careful, and my grandmother would laugh 
and say, Toys should be played with.’ “I had a favorite, a twenty-one-inch red-haired doll in a short, shiny 
white dress like Shirley Temple. I called her Maggie. She was from the 
1940s, and I loved her. I told her everything, and when I was lonely, I 
would imagine myself in that room, playing with Maggie. My 
grandmother died when I was six, and when my dad and I went to see my 
grandfather after the funeral, he told me I should pick a doll to keep from 
the collection. I went to the room to get Maggie, and as soon as I walked 
through the door, something was wrong. “It was as though the light had changed, become darker, harsher than 
it used to be. I looked around, and the lively, playful poses of the dolls 
now seemed unnatural, disjointed. It was as though all of them were 
staring at me. I didn’t know what they wanted. Maggie was in the corner, 
and I took a step toward her, then stopped. I met her eyes, and instead of 
painted glass I saw a stranger. I turned and ran. I raced down the hall as 
though something might be chasing me, not daring to look back until I 
reached my father’s side. He asked if I had picked a doll, and I just shook 
my head. I never went back in that room.” Everyone was silent. Charlie was transfixed, still seeing little Marla 
running for her life. “What happened to the dolls?” Carlton asked, only half breaking the 
spell. “I don’t know. I think my mom sold them to another collector when 
my grandfather died,” Marla said. “Sorry, Marla,” Lamar said, “it’s still just tricks of the mind. You 
missed your grandmother, you were frightened of death, and dolls are 
inherently freaky.” Charlie broke in, wanting to head off the argument. “Is everybody 
done eating? We have to go soon.” “We still have plenty of time,” Carlton said, looking down at his 
watch. “It’s, like, five minutes away.” Something else fell out of his 
mouth, landing next to the first dropped bit of food. John looked around the table, from person to person, as though he 
were waiting for something. “We have to tell them,” he said, looking at Charlie. “Oh yeah, we totally do!” Jessica said. “Tell us what?” Jason piped up, peeking over the back of Marla’s 
seat. “Shh,” Marla said halfheartedly. She was looking at John. “Tell us 
what?” John dropped his voice, forcing everyone to lean in closer. Charlie 
did it, too, eager to hear, even though she knew exactly what he was 
going to say. “We went to Freddy’s last night,” he said. “Freddy’s is still there?” Marla exclaimed, too loud. “Shhh!” Jessica said, making frantic hand movements. “Sorry,” Marla whispered. “I just can’t believe it’s still there.” “It’s not,” Carlton said, raising his eyebrows and grinning 
enigmatically at Lamar. “It’s hidden,” John explained. “They were supposed to knock it down 
to build a mall, but they didn’t. They just... built around it.” “Entombed it,” John corrected. “And you got in?” Lamar said. Charlie nodded confirmation. “No 
way.” “What was it like?” Marla asked. “Exactly the same,” John said. “It was like ...” “It was like everyone vanished,” Charlie said softly. “I want to go, too! You have to take us,” Marla said. Jessica cleared 
her throat hesitantly, and they all looked at her. “I don’t know,” she said slowly. “I mean, today? Should we?” “We have to see it,” Lamar said. “You can’t tell us this and not let us 
see it.” “I want to see it,” Jason chimed in. “What’s Freddy’s?” They ignored 
him. His eyes were wide, and he was hanging on to every word. “Maybe Jessica’s right,” John said with reluctance. “Maybe it’s 
disrespectful to go tonight.” There was a moment’s pause, and Charlie 
knew they were waiting for her to talk. She was the one they were really 
afraid of offending; they needed her permission. “I think we should go,” she said. “I don’t think it’s disrespectful. It’s 
almost a way of honoring ... what happened.” She looked around the 
table. Jessica was nodding. Charlie wasn’t sure it was much of an 
argument, but they didn’t need to be convinced. They wanted an excuse. Marla twisted herself to look back at Jason’s plate. “Are you done 
eating?” she asked. “Yup,” he said. Marla pointed to the game in his hand. “You know you can’t play with that during the ceremony,” she said. “Yup.” “I’m serious, Jason. I’m locking it in the car.” “Why don’t you just lock me in the car,” he muttered. “I’d love to,” Marla said under her breath as she turned back to the 
group. “Okay, we can go.” They headed to the school in a caravan, the boys in Carlton’s car, 
Marla following, and Charlie bringing up the rear. “We should have carpooled,” Jessica said idly, staring out the 
window. It hadn’t occurred to Charlie. “I guess,” she said. “On the other hand, I’m not sure I want to ride with Marla and 
Jason,” Jessica said plainly. “They are kind of intense,” Charlie agreed. When they arrived, the parking lot was already jammed full. Charlie 
parked on a side street in what she hoped was a legal spot, and they 
walked to the school along the familiar sidewalk. Jessica shivered. “I’ve got goose bumps.” “It is weird to be here,” Charlie said. The school looked unchanged 
from the outside, but the fence was new and slick, a black, plastic-coated 
chain link. The whole town was like this, a mix of old and new, familiar 
and not. The things that had changed seemed out of place, and the things 
that had remained the same made Charlie feel out of place. It must be so 
strange for Carlton to live here, she thought. “I know this is a nostalgia 
trip for all of you, but I just live here,” he had said. Somehow, Charlie 
was not sure she believed that. When they got to the playing field behind the school, the bleachers 
were already full. Rows of folding chairs had been laid out in front of 
them to add more seating, and Charlie spotted Marla and the boys at the 
front. “Oh, great,” she said. “I don’t want to sit in the front row.” “I don’t mind,” Jessica said. Charlie looked at her. Of course you don % she wanted to say. You ’re you. “Yeah,” she said instead, “no big deal. Half the town must be here,” 
she observed as they made their way to the group, where two seats had 
been saved. There was one open in the front row, next to Carlton, and 
one right behind it, beside Marla. Jessica winked at Charlie and sat down 
next to Carlton. She leaned toward him, and they started whispering. 
Charlie repeated herself to Marla: “There’s a lot of people here.” “Yeah,” Marla said. “I mean, it’s a small town, you know? Michael’s 
...it was a big deal. Plus, his parents still live here. People remember.” “People remember,” Charlie echoed softly. There was a small raised 
stage set up in front of them, with a podium and four chairs. Behind the 
chairs a screen was suspended; projected on it was a larger-than-life 
picture of Michael. It was a close-up, just his face. It was not the most 
flattering picture: His head was thrown back at an odd angle, his mouth 
open in laughter, but it was perfect—a joyful moment, snatched up and kept, not curated. He looked happy. “Darn it,” Marla said softly. Charlie looked at her. She was dabbing 
at her eyes with a tissue. Charlie put an arm around her. “I know,” she said. The sound system came on suddenly with a whine that slowly faded. 
Four people walked onstage: a heavyset man in a suit who went straight 
to the microphone, an elderly woman, and a couple, a man and a woman. 
The man in the suit stepped up to the podium, and the elderly woman sat 
down in one of the four chairs. The couple stayed back, but they did not 
sit. Charlie knew they must be Michael’s parents, but she did not 
recognize them. When she was young they had just been parents, a 
species that was for the most part unremarkable. She realized suddenly 
that she didn’t even know their names; Michael’s parents had not gone 
out of their way to interact with their son’s friends, and Charlie had 
literally spoken to them as “Michael’s mom,” and “Michael’s dad,” as if 
those were appropriate forms of address. The man at the podium introduced himself as the school’s principal. 
He said a few things about loss and community and the fleeting 
preciousness of youth. He talked briefly about Michael’s kindness, his 
artistic talent, and the impression he made, even as a small child, on 
everyone he met. It was true, Charlie reflected. Michael had been an 
unusually charismatic child. He wasn’t exactly a leader, but they all 
found themselves wanting to please him, to make him smile, and so they 
often did the things they knew he wanted to do, just to make him happy. The principal finished and introduced Michael’s parents, Joan and 
Donald Brooks. They stood at the podium awkwardly, each looking from 
face to face in the crowd, as if they were not sure how they had gotten 
here. Finally Joan stepped forward. “It feels strange to be up here,” was the first thing she said, and a 
murmur of something like agreement swept quietly through the crowd. 
“We are so grateful to all of you for coming, especially those of you who 
came from out of town.” She looked direcdy at the front row, talking to 
Charlie and the others. “Some of Michael’s friends have come from all 
over, and I think that is a testament to who he was that ten years later, with your lives on new paths, moving on to a whole new stage of life—” 
So close to the stage, Charlie could see she was about to cry, tears 
wavering in her eyes, but her voice was steady. “We are grateful you are 
here. We wanted to give Michael a legacy with this scholarship, but it is 
clear that he has already left one, all on his own.” Marla grabbed 
Charlie’s hand, and Charlie squeezed back. “I want to say,” Joan continued, “something about the families who 
are not here. As we all know, Michael was not the only child lost during 
those terrible few months.” She read out four more names, two girls and 
two boys. Charlie glanced at Marla. They all knew there had been other 
children, but Michael’s death had loomed so great in all their lives that 
they had never even talked about the other victims. Now Charlie felt a 
pang of guilt. To someone, those little girls and boys had been as vital as 
Michael. To someone, their losses had meant the end of the world. She 
closed her eyes for a moment. I can’t mourn everyone, she thought. No 
one can. Joan was still talking. “Although their families have moved on to 
other places, those young boys and girls will always have a place in our 
hearts. Now I would like to call to speak a young man who was 
particularly close to my son. Carlton, if you would?” They all watched in surprise as Carlton stood and climbed up behind 
the podium. Joan hugged him tightly and stayed close behind him as he 
pulled a crumpled piece of paper from his pocket. He cleared his throat, 
looking over the heads of the crowd, then crumpled the paper up again 
and put it back in his pocket. “I don’t remember as much about Michael as I should,” he said 
finally. “Too much of those years is a blur; I know we met when we were 
still in diapers, but I don’t remember that, thankfully.” There was a soft 
titter through the crowd. “I do know that as far back as I have memories, 
Michael is in them. I remember playing superheroes; drawing, which he 
was much better at than me; and as we got older I remember ... well, 
playing superheroes and drawing. What I really remember, though, is 
that my days were always more exciting when he was in them. He was 
smarter than me; he was the one always coming up with new ideas, new ways to get in trouble. Sony about those lamps, by the way, Mrs. 
Brooks. If I had jumped the way Michael said, I probably would only 
have broken one.” Donald laughed, a gulping, desperate sound. Charlie shifted 
uncomfortably and pulled her hand from Marla’s with an apologetic half 
smile. Their grief, naked, was too much to watch. It was raw, an open 
wound, and she could not stand to look. Carlton came back down to sit with them. Michael’s grandmother 
spoke, and then his father, who had recovered enough to share a memory 
of taking his son to his first art class. He told the crowd about the 
scholarship, for a graduating senior who has demonstrated both 
excellence and passion in the arts, and announced the winner of the first 
one, Anne Park, a slight Korean girl who came quickly up to the stage to 
accept her plaque and hugs from Michael’s parents. It must have been 
strange for Anne, Charlie thought, her honor so overshadowed by its 
origins. But then, she realized, Anne must have known Michael, too, 
however much in passing. After the ceremony, they went to say hello to Michael’s parents, 
hugging them and making sounds of condolence. What do you say to 
someone who has lost a child? Can it be any easier? Can ten years make 
a difference, or do they wake up each morning as fresh with grief as the 
day he died? On a long cafeteria table by the stage, pictures and cards 
were collecting slowly—people had brought flowers, notes to Michael’s 
parents or to him. Things they remembered, things they wished they had 
said. Charlie went over and browsed through the notes. There were 
pictures of her and the others as well as of Michael. It shouldn’t have 
surprised her—they were all together constantly, as a group or in rotating 
groups of two and three. She saw herself in the middle of a pose: 
Michael, John, and she, all covered in mud, with Jessica beside them, 
still perfectly clean, refusing to go near them. Charlie smiled. That looks 
about right. In another, a five-year-old Marla struggled to support the 
weight of her newborn little brother, with Lamar peering suspiciously at 
the tiny thing over her shoulder. Some of Michael’s drawings were there, 
too, crayon scribbles professionally, incongruously framed. Charlie picked one up, a drawing of what she supposed was a T. rex 
stomping through a city. It was actually, she realized now, almost 
amazing how talented he was. While she and the others were scribbling 
stick figures, Michael’s drawings looked realistic, sort of. “That’s really good,” John said over her shoulder. Charlie startled. “You scared me,” she said. “Sorry.” Charlie looked back at the drawing. Whatever it was, it was better 
than she could draw now. Suddenly her chest tightened, gripped with 
loss and rage. It wasn’t just that Michael died young, it was what that 
truly meant: He had been stopped in his tracks, years, decades of life 
snatched and torn violently from him. She felt herself well up with 
youthful indignation as if she were a child again, wanting only to whine, 
It’s not fair! Taking a deep breath, Charlie set the picture back down on the table 
and turned away. The gathering was continuing, but she needed to leave. 
She caught Marla’s eye, and Marla, as scarily intuitive as always, nodded 
and caught Lamar’s sleeve. From their various vantage points, they all 
headed for the parking lot. No one seemed to notice their departure, 
which made sense. Except for Carlton, they were all strangers here. In the lot, they stopped by Marla’s car. She had somehow called 
down a miracle and found a space right next to the school. “Can I play my game now?” Jason said immediately, and Marla 
found her keys in her purse and handed them over. “Don’t drive away,” she warned. Suddenly, Marla grabbed her 
brother and pulled him close, hugging him to her for a long minute. “Jeez, I’m only going to the car,” he muttered when she let him go. “Yeah, maybe I should let you drive away,” she said, giving him a 
little push. She cleared her throat. “So are we going to Freddy’s?” she 
said. They all looked at one another. “Yeah,” Charlie said. “I think we should.” Somehow, following this, 
going back to Freddy’s seemed like more than a game. It felt right. 
“Let’s meet there at sunset,” she said. “Hey, Jessica, can you catch a ride 
with the guys or something? I’m gonna go for a walk.” “You can come with us,” Marla said. “I promised Jason I’d take him 
to the movies.” Charlie headed down the road without waiting to hear the rest of the 
discussion. A dozen feet from the lot, she realized she was being 
followed. She turned around. “John?” “Do you mind if I come? You’re going to your old house, right?” “How did you know that?” “It’s the only interesting thing out this way. Anyway, I went to see 
my old place, too. It was painted blue, and there was a garden in the 
yard. It was weird. I know it wasn’t blue when I lived there, but I 
couldn’t remember what color it was supposed to be. Everything’s so 
different.” Charlie didn’t say anything. She wasn’t even sure she wanted John to 
come with her. Her house, her father’s house, it was private. She thought 
of the first time John had seen the toys, his fascination, an interest that 
was all his, that had nothing to do with pleasing her. She relented. “Okay, you can come.” “Is it...” He hesitated. “Is it different?” “It’s really not,” Charlie said. It wasn’t quite true, but she wasn’t sure 
how to explain the thing that had changed. They walked together for the better part of three miles, away from 
town and down old roads, first paved, then gravel. As they neared the 
place they left the roads, ascending the steep incline of a hill overrun 
with brush and trees that should have been trimmed or cut down ages 
ago. Three rooftops peeked over the leaves, scattered widely over the 
hill, but no one had lived in these houses in a long time. At last they walked up the driveway, and John stopped short, staring 
up at the house. “I thought it would be less intimidating,” he said softly. Impatient, 
Charlie took his arm for a second and pulled him away, leading them 
around the side of the house. It was one thing for him to be here with her, 
but she was not quite ready to let someone else inside. She wasn’t even 
sure she wanted to go inside again anyway. He followed her without protest, as if aware that they were in her territory and she would decide 
where they went. The property was large, more than a lawn. There were woods 
surrounding the wide space of the backyard, and as a child Charlie had 
often felt like she was in her own little realm, ruler of all she surveyed. 
The grass had gone wild, weeds growing feral and up to their knees. 
They walked the perimeter. John peered into the woods, and Charlie was 
struck by her old childhood fear, like something out of a fairy tale. Don’t 
go into the woods alone, Charlotte, her father warned. It was not sinister, 
just a parent’s warning, don’t get lost, like telling her not to cross the 
street without holding someone’s hand or not to touch the stove when it 
was hot, but Charlie took it more seriously. She knew from her 
storybooks, as all children did, that the woods contained wolves, and 
more dangerous things. She caught John’s sleeve. “Don’t,” she said, and he pulled back from the woods, not asking 
why. Instead, he went to a tree in the middle of the yard and put a hand 
on it. “Remember that tree?” he asked, smiling, something a little wicked 
in his voice. “Of course,” Charlie said, walking over. “It’s been here longer than I 
ever was.” But he was looking at her, waiting for more, and suddenly she 
remembered. It had been a sunny day, springtime; they were six years old, maybe. 
John was visiting, and they were playing hide-and-seek, half supervised 
by Charlie’s father, who was in his garage workshop, absorbed in his 
machines. The door was open so he would notice if someone screamed, 
but short of that, the outdoors was their own. John counted to ten, eyes 
covered, facing the tree that was home base. The yard was wide and 
open; there were not many places to hide, so Charlie, buoyed up by the 
excitement of the game, dared to hide beyond the forbidden edge of the 
woods, just barely past the tree line. John searched the other places first: 
behind her father’s car, in the corner where one part of the garage jutted 
out, the space beneath the porch where a child could just barely crawl. 
He realized where she must be, and Charlie braced herself to run as he began to walk the edges of the yard, darting into the woods and out 
again, looking behind trees. When at last he found her, she took off, 
tearing across the lawn to the home base tree. He was just behind her, so 
close he could almost touch her, and she sped on, staying just out of 
reach. She hit the tree, almost slamming into it, and John was right 
behind her, bumping into her a second later, too fast to stop. They were 
both giggling hysterically, and then they stopped at the same moment, 
still gasping to catch their breath. “Hey, Charlotte,” John said, stressing her name in the mocking tone 
he always used. “Don’t call me that,” Charlie said automatically. “You ever see grown-ups kiss?” He picked up a stick and started 
digging at the tree bark, like he was more interested in that than in her 
answer. Charlie shrugged. “Yeah, I guess so.” “Wanna try it?” He still wasn’t looking at her; his face was streaked 
with dirt, like it often was, and his hair was sticking out in all directions, 
a twig caught in it above his forehead. “Gross,” Charlie said, wrinkling her nose. Then, after a moment, 
“Yeah, okay.” John dropped the stick and leaned toward her, his hands behind his 
back. Charlie closed her eyes, waiting, still not entirely sure what she 
was supposed to do. “Charlotte!” It was her father. Charlie jumped back. John’s face was 
so close to hers that she banged into him with her forehead. “Ow!” he yelled, clapping a hand to his nose. Charlie’s father came around the side of the tree. “What are you up 
to? John?” He pried John’s fingers away from his nose. “You’re not 
bleeding. You’ll be fine,” he said. “Charlotte, closer to the house, 
please.” He then pointed his finger, directing them forward. “John, it 
looks like your mom is here anyway.” He walked ahead of them, toward 
the driveway where her car had just pulled in. “Yeah, okay.” John trotted off toward the driveway, turning once to 
wave at Charlie. He was grinning like something wonderful had happened, although Charlie was not quite sure what it was. “Oh my,” Charlie said now, covering her face, sure it was bright red. 
When she looked up again, John was grinning that same satisfied, six- 
year-old grin. “You know, my nose still hurts when it rains,” he said, touching a 
finger to it. “It does not,” Charlie said. She leaned back against the tree. “I can’t 
believe you tried to kiss me. We were six!” Charlie stared at him 
accusingly. “Even the littlest heart wants what it wants,” John said in a mock 
romantic voice, but there was an edge of something real in it, something 
not well enough hidden. Charlie realized, suddenly, that he was standing 
very close to her. “Let’s go see your dad’s workshop,” John said 
abruptly, too loud, and Charlie nodded. “Okay.” She regretted it as she said it. She did not want to open the 
workshop door. She closed her eyes, still leaning against the tree. She 
could still see it; it was all she could see when she thought of that place. 
The twitching, malformed, metal skeleton in its dark corner, with its 
wrenching shudders and its blistering silver eyes. The image welled up in 
her head until it was all there was. The memory radiated a cutting 
anguish, but she did not know who it belonged to: to the thing, to her 
father, or to herself. Charlie felt a hand on her shoulder and opened her eyes. It was John, 
frowning at her like he was worried. “Charlie, are you okay?” No. “Yes,” she said. “Come on, let’s go see what’s in the workshop.” It was not locked, and there was no real reason it should be, Charlie 
thought. Her eyes went first to the dark comer. The figure was not there. 
There was a weathered apron hanging in its place, the one her father had 
worn for soldering, and his goggles next to it, but there was no sign of 
that uncanny presence. Charlie should have felt relief, but she didn’t, 
only a vague unease. She looked around. There seemed to be almost 
nothing left of the workshop: The benches were there, where her father had assembled and tweaked his inventions, but the materials, the 
blueprints, and the half-finished robots that were once crammed onto 
every surface had disappeared. Where are they? Had her aunt had them carted away to a junkyard to 
rust and crumble among other discarded, useless things? Or had her 
father done it himself, so no one else would have to? The concrete floor 
was littered here and there with scraps; whoever had done the cleanup 
had not been thorough. Charlie knelt and picked up an oddly shaped 
scrap of wood, then a small circuit board. She turned it over. Whose 
brain were you ? she wondered, but it did not matter, not really. It was 
battered and worn, the etched copper too badly scratched to repair, even 
if someone wanted to. “Charlie,” John said from across the workshop. He was in the dark 
corner; if the skeleton had been there, it could have reached out to touch 
him. But it’s not there. “What?” “Come see what I found.” Charlie went. John was standing beside her father’s toolbox, and he 
stepped away as she came over, giving her space. Charlie knelt down 
before it. It looked as if it had just been polished. It was made of dark, 
stained wood, glossy with some kind of lacquer. She opened it gently. 
Charlie picked up an awl from the top tray and held it for a moment, the 
rounded wooden handle fitting into the palm of her hand as if it had been 
made for her to use. Not that she knew how. The last time she had picked 
it up, she could barely fit her fingers around its base. She picked up the 
tools one after another, lifting them from their places. The toolbox had 
wooden spaces carved out to fit the precise shape of each item. All the 
tools were polished and clean, their wooden handles smooth and their 
metal unrusted. They looked as though they had been used just that 
morning, wiped down and put away meticulously. Like someone still 
cared for them. She looked at them with a fierce, unexpected joy, as if 
something she had fought for was returned to her. But her joy felt wrong, 
misplaced; looking at her father’s things set her off-balance. Something in the world was not as it should be. Seized suddenly with an unfounded 
fear, she thrust the awl back into its place in the box, dropping it like 
something burning. She closed the lid, but she did not stand. Memory overtook her, and she closed her eyes, not fighting against it. Her feet were wedged in the dirt, and two large and callous hands 
covered her eyes. Suddenly there was a bright light, and Charlie 
squinted, squirming impatiently to see what was before her. Three 
complete and gleaming figures towered over her, motionless, the sun 
reflecting off every edge and contour. They were blinding to behold. “What do you think?” She heard the question but could not answer it; 
her eyes hadn’t adjusted. The three masses of standing metal all looked 
similar in structure, but Charlie had grown accustomed to seeing more 
than was there, imagining the final result. For a long time now there had 
been three empty suits, hanging like carcasses from a rafter in the attic. 
Charlie knew that they had a special purpose, and now she understood 
what it was. Two long beams protruded from the top of the head of one of the 
hulking masses. The head itself was solid and skull-like; the beams 
looked as if they had been violently thrust there. “That’s the rabbit!” Charlie squealed, proud of herself. “You aren’t scared of him?” the voice asked. “Of course not. He looks like Theodore!” “Theodore. That’s right.” The figure in the middle was more clearly rendered: Its face was 
chiseled, its features distinct. It was clearly a bear, and a single metal 
beam stuck out from the top of its head as well. Charlie was puzzled for a 
moment, then smiled. “For the top hat,” she said with confidence. The last form was perhaps the most frightening; a long, metal clamp 
protruded from its empty face, in the place where a mouth might go. It 
was holding something on a platter, a metal structure that looked like a 
jaw, wires running like strewn spaghetti up and down the frame and in 
and out of sockets. “That one’s scary,” she admitted hesitantly. “Well, this part will look like a cupcake!” Her father pressed down on the top, and the jaw snapped shut, making Charlie jump, then giggle. Suddenly, her laughter stopped. She had been so distracted she’d 
forgotten. I’m not supposed to stand here. I don't stand here! Her hands 
were trembling. How could she have forgotten? The corner. She looked 
at the ground, unable to lift her eyes, unable to move. One of her shoes 
was untied. There was a screw next to her foot and an old piece of tape, 
opaque with dirt. There was something behind her. “Charlie?” It was John. “Charlie!” She looked up at him. “Sorry. Just lost. This place ...” She stood and took a step forward, 
positioning herself in the place she remembered. She glanced behind her 
as if the memory might manifest. The corner was empty; there was 
nothing. She knelt again and put her hand on the ground, fishing around 
until she found a small screw in the bare dirt. She palmed it, then looked 
closer; there were small holes in the ground, exposed when she moved 
the loose dirt. Charlie ran her fingers over them, thoughtful. “Charlie, I have to tell you something.” There was something urgent 
in John’s voice. Charlie looked around the workshop and stood up. “Can we go outside?” she said. “I can’t breathe in here.” “Yeah, of course,” he said. He followed her out into the yard and 
back to the hide-and-seek tree. She was tired, a wrung-out exhaustion 
deep inside. She would be fine in a minute, but she wanted a place that 
held only silly childhood memories. She sat down in the grass, leaned 
against the trunk, and waited for John to talk. He settled himself cross- 
legged in front of her, a little stiffly, smoothing his pants, and she 
laughed. “Are you worried about getting dirty?” “Times change,” he said with a wry smile. “What do you have to tell me?” she asked, and his face grew serious. “I should have said something a long time ago,” he said. “I just— 
when something happens like that, you don’t trust your memory, don’t 
trust your own mind.” “What are you talking about?” Charlie asked. “Sorry.” He took a deep breath. “I saw someone that night, the night 
Michael disappeared.” “What do you mean?” “Remember when we were sitting at the table by the stage, and the 
animals started going crazy?” “I remember,” Charlie said. It had been bizarre, their movements 
upsetting. They were moving too fast, bending and spinning, cycling 
through their limited, programmed moves over and over. They seemed 
frantic, panicked. Charlie was mesmerized. She should have been afraid 
of them, but she was not; she saw, in their juddering motion, a kind of 
desperation. She was reminded, for a moment, of dreams of running, 
dreams when the world depended on her going just ten steps forward, yet 
her body could only move in slow motion. Something was wrong, 
terribly wrong. Chaotically, violently, the animatronic animals onstage 
thrashed robotic limbs in all directions, their eyes rolling in their sockets. “What did you see?” Charlie said to John now, shaking her head as 
though she could rid it of the image. “There was another mascot,” he said. “A bear.” “Freddy,” Charlie interrupted without thinking. “No, not Freddy.” John took her hands as if trying to calm them both, 
but he let go before he spoke again. “It was standing right near us, next 
to our table, but it wasn’t looking at the stage like everyone else was. 
That technician came over, remember, and even he was just watching the 
animatronics—I guess he was trying to figure out what was happening. I 
looked over at the mascot, and it looked back at me ...” He stopped. “John, what?” Charlie said impatiently. “Then the animatronics onstage stopped moving, and I looked over at 
them, and when we all turned back around, Michael was gone. And so 
was the mascot.” Charlie stared at him in disbelief. “You saw the kidnapper,” she said. “I didn’t know what I saw,” John said. “It was all chaos. I didn’t even 
think about it; I didn’t make the connection; it was just another animal at Freddy’s. I didn’t think about who might have been inside it. I was ... I 
was a kid, you know? You figure that the grown-ups already know 
everything you know.” “Yeah,” Charlie said. “I know. Do you remember anything? What the 
person looked like?” John was staring up at the sky, as if he were seeing 
something Charlie could not. “Yes,” he said. His voice was deliberate, steady. “The eyes. They 
were all I could see, but I still see them sometimes, like they’re right 
there in front of me. They were dead.” “What?” “They were dead, just dull and flat. Like, they still moved and 
blinked and saw, but whatever was behind them had died a long time 
ago.” He fell silent. It was growing dark. There was a bright, almost unnatural streak of 
pink across the western sky, and Charlie shivered. “We should go get the car,” she said. “It’s almost time to meet 
everyone.” “Yeah,” John said, but he didn’t move right away, still staring into 
the distance. “John? We have to go,” Charlie said. He seemed to come back to 
himself slowly. “Yeah,” he said. “We should go.” He got up and brushed off his 
pants, then grinned at Charlie. “Race you?” he said and took off running. 
Charlie chased after him, her feet pounding the asphalt, and her arms 
swinging free. 
Charlie and John were the last ones to the mall. When they pulled up, 
the others were gathered tight in a circle in front of Marla’s car, as if 
sharing a conspiracy. “Come on,” Marla said before they had walked all the way to the 
group. She was bouncing on the balls of her feet as if she were ready to 
run for the door of the abandoned building. Everyone but Charlie and 
John had changed their clothing, wearing jeans and T-shirts, things more 
suited for exploration, and she had a brief moment of feeling out of 
place. At least I didn't wear a dress, Charlie thought. “Let’s go,” she said. Marla’s impatience seemed to be contagious, or 
maybe it just gave Charlie an excuse to let her real feelings come to the 
surface. She wanted to show Freddy’s off to the others. “Hold up,” John said. He looked at Jessica. “Did you explain 
everything?” “I told them about the night guard,” she said. “What else is there?” 
He looked thoughtful for a moment. “I guess nothing,” he said. “I brought more lights,” Carlton said and held up three flashlights of 
varying sizes. He tossed one to Jason, a small one with an elastic 
headband attached. Jason turned it on, fixed it around his head, and 
began moving enthusiastically in waves and circles, making the light bob 
and dance. “Shh,” Charlie said, even though he was not making any sound. “Jason,” Marla whispered, “turn it off. We can’t attract attention, 
remember?” Jason gleefully ignored them, spinning off into the parking lot like a 
top. “I told him if he’s not good he has to wait in the car,” Marla told 
Charlie quietly. “But now that we’re here, I’m not sure which place is 
creepier.” She eyed the bare branches overhead raging in the wind, 
threatening to reach down and grab them. “Or we can feed him to Foxy.” Charlie winked. She went to her trunk 
and hefted out the police flashlight, but she did not turn it on. Instead 
Carlton switched on two of his smaller lights and handed one to Jessica. They headed into the mall. Knowing where they were going and what 
was waiting for them there, Charlie, John, Jessica, and Carlton moved 
through the empty spaces with a sense of purpose, but the others kept 
stopping to look around. “Come on,” Jessica said impatiently as Lamar gazed up at the atrium 
dome. “You can see the moon,” he said and pointed. Next to him, Marla 
nodded, mimicking his posture. “It’s beautiful,” she said, although she could not see it. From a distance, they heard footsteps echo in the emptiness. “Hey, hey, over here!” John hissed, and they hurried as quietly as 
they could. They could not run for fear of making noise, and so they 
walked, fast but careful, hugging the walls. They entered the black void 
of the department store, creeping along in the shadows until they reached 
the break in the wall. John held back the hanging plastic obscuring the 
opening as the others maneuvered around the scaffolding. Jason was 
slow, and Charlie put a hand on his shoulder to hurry him up. As she steered him to the opening, a strong beam of light swept into the room, 
scanning up and down the walls. They all ducked through the plastic and 
ran down the alley to where the others were crouched down against the 
wall. “He saw us!” Jason whispered, alarmed, running straight to his sister. “Shh,” Marla said. They waited. Charlie was next to John this time, and after that 
moment by the tree, whatever it was, she was very, almost 
uncomfortably, aware of him. They were not quite touching, but she 
seemed to know exactly where he was, an awkward sixth sense. She 
glanced at him, but his eyes were fixed on the opening to the hallway. 
They could hear the guard’s footsteps now, clear in the empty space, 
each one distinct. He was moving slowly, deliberately. Charlie closed her 
eyes, listening. She could tell where he was from the sound, she thought, 
getting closer, then farther, crisscrossing the open room like he was 
hunting for something. The steps came right up to the entrance of the 
alley and stopped. They all held their breaths. He knows, Charlie thought. But the steps started again, and she 
opened her eyes and saw the light receding. He was going away. They waited, still motionless, until they could no longer hear the 
tapping of his hard-soled shoes. She and John both stumbled a little as 
they stood, and she realized they had been leaning against each other 
without realizing it. She didn’t look at him; instead she set to work 
taking the heaviest things off the wooden shelf. “Will I be needing this?” Lamar asked, as Charlie handed him a 
bucket with a saw sticking out of it. “We have to move the shelf,” Jessica said. “Come on.” Jessica, Charlie, Carlton, and John got back into place and moved the 
shelf. Lamar tried to find a place to help, but there was not really room. 
Marla just waited. “I’m better suited to supervising,” she said when Charlie mock-glared 
at her. This time the screaming of the metal door was not as loud, as if it no 
longer protested their entrance quite so strongly. Still, Marla and Jason covered their ears. “You think that’s not going to bring the guard?” Marla hissed. Charlie shrugged. “Didn’t last time,” she said. “I know he saw us,” Jason said again. The others ignored him. “His 
flashlight went right over me,” he insisted. “It’s really okay, Jason,” Jessica said. “We thought he saw us last 
night, too, but it was fine.” Jason looked dubious, and Lamar bent over to 
his eye level. “Hey, Jason,” he said. “What do you think the guard would do if he 
saw us?” “Shoot us?” Jason whimpered, eyeing Lamar warily. “Worse,” Lamar said gravely. “Community service.” Jason wasn’t sure what it meant, but he held his eyes open wide as 
though it was something terrible. “Will you leave him alone?” Marla whispered, amused. “He didn’t see us,” Jason reassured himself, though clearly 
unconvinced. Charlie turned on the big light and shone it down the 
hallway. “Oh my!” Marla gasped as the first light streaked across the interior 
of the pizzeria. Suddenly it became real, and her face flushed with awe 
and fear. They went in one by one. The temperature seemed to drop as soon as 
they walked into the hall, and Charlie shivered, but she did not feel ill at 
ease. She knew where they were now, and she knew what they would 
find. When they got to the dining room, Carlton spread his arms wide 
and twirled. “Welcome ... to Freddy Fazbear’s Pizza!” he said in a booming 
announcer’s voice. Jessica giggled, but the melodrama did not actually 
seem out of place. Marla and Lamar gaped at the room, awestruck. 
Charlie set the large flashlight on the ground, the beam facing up, and it 
lit up the main room in a dim and ghostly illumination. “Cool,” Jason said. His eyes fell on the merry-go-round, and he raced 
for it and jumped onto the back of a pony before anyone could stop him. 
He was too big for it, his sneakers dangling all the way to the ground. Charlie smiled. “How do I make it go?” he shouted. “Sorry, buddy,” John said. Jason climbed off, disappointed. “The arcade is over this way!” Carlton said, motioning to anyone 
who might follow. Marla went with him, while Jason fiddled hopefully 
with the carousel’s control box. Lamar had walked to the stage and was 
standing transfixed, staring up at the animals. Charlie went over to him. “I can’t believe they’re still here,” he said as she walked up. “Yeah,” she said. “I’d forgotten this was a real place.” Lamar smiled, for the first time 
resembling the little boy Charlie had once known. Charlie smiled back. There was something surreal about the place; 
she had certainly never told any of her school friends about it. She would 
not have known where to begin; worse, she would not have known where 
to stop. Jessica poked her head out from the retracted curtain at the side 
of the main stage, and they both startled. “What are you doing?” Lamar asked. “Exploring!” she said. “There’s nothing back here but a bunch of 
wires, though.” She disappeared into the folds of cloth again. After a 
moment they heard a thud as she jumped to the ground, and she came 
strolling over. “Do they work?” Lamar asked, pointing at the animals. “I don’t know,” Charlie said. Truthfully, she had no idea how they 
worked. They had always just been, set to intermittent life by whatever 
alchemy her father performed in his workshop. “It doesn’t look like 
anything is missing. They should work,” she reluctantly added, though in 
her head she questioned the idea of trying to turn them on. “Hey!” Jessica exclaimed. She was kneeling by the stairs to the stage. 
“Everybody come here now!” Charlie went over, and Lamar followed. “What is it?” Charlie asked. “Look,” Jessica said, shining her little light. Though well hidden 
along the grain of the wood, there was a door inset into the wall of the 
stage. “How did we not see that?” Charlie wondered. “We weren’t looking,” John said, staring intently at the small door. 
The whole group had gathered, and now Jessica looked around at them 
with a grin, put her hand on the little doorknob, and pulled. Magically, it opened. The door revealed a small, sunken room. 
Jessica shone the light around it. It was full of equipment; one wall was 
covered in TV screens. “Must be CCTV,” Lamar said. “Come on.” Jessica handed her flashlight to Charlie and swung her 
legs through the door. There was one deep step leading down into the 
room, which was no bigger than a large refrigerator turned on its side. “That’s a little too cramped for me; I’ll keep looking around out 
here.” John saluted, then turned as though to stand guard. “This is like a clown car,” Marla remarked as she jostled against 
Charlie. The space was too cramped for all of them, but they crowded 
together; Jason sat on the step, feeling more comfortable by the exit. 
There were eight of the television screens across the wall, each with its 
own little panel of buttons and knobs, and sticking out beneath them was 
a panel, almost a table, covered in buttons. They were large and black, 
unlabeled, and spaced in an irregular series. The other wall was blank 
except for a single large switch by the door. “What’s this do?” Jason said and put his hand on the switch. He 
hesitated just long enough for someone to stop him, then pulled it. The lights came on. “What?” Carlton looked to the others frantically. They all stared at one another in confused silence. Jason climbed up 
and poked his head out into the main room. “They’re on out here, too, some of them, at least,” he said too loudly. “Why is there power?” Jessica whispered, reaching over Jason to pull 
the door closed again. “How is that possible?” Charlie said. “This place hasn’t been open in 
ten years.” “Cool.” Marla leaned forward, studying the monitors as though 
expecting some sort of answer to be revealed. “Turn on the TVs,” Jason said suddenly. “I can’t reach.” Jessica flipped on the first TV, and static crackled across the screen. “Nothing?” Charlie asked impatiently. “Just a sec.” She twisted a dial, wiggling it back and forth until an 
image emerged. It was the stage, centered on Bonnie. The other animals 
weren’t visible. Jessica turned on the rest of the TVs, adjusting them 
until the pictures became clear, although most were still poorly lit. “They still work,” Charlie said almost under her breath. “Maybe,” Jessica said. “Hey, someone go out there. See if the camera 
is live.” “Okay,” Marla said after a brief hesitation, wriggling her way to the 
exit and awkwardly climbing over Jason. A moment later she appeared 
on camera, onstage beside Bonnie. Marla waved. She appeared 
multicolored as the stage lights bathed her in purple, green, and yellow 
from different sides. “Can you see me?” she asked. “Yeah,” Carlton shouted. Lamar was staring at the buttons. “What do these do?” he said with a wicked grin, pressing one. Marla screamed. “Marla, are you okay?” Charlie shouted. “What happened?” Marla was standing still on the stage, but she had backed away from 
Bonnie and was staring at him as if he might bite. “He moved!” Marla yelled. “Bonnie moved! What did you do?” “Marla,” Jessica yelled, laughing, “it’s okay! We pushed a button!” Lamar pressed the button again, and they all watched the screen this 
time. Sure enough, Bonnie turned stiffly to one side. He pressed it again, 
and the rabbit swiveled back to face the absent audience again. “Try another one,” Carlton said. “Go ahead,” Lamar said and climbed out of the little room to join 
Marla onstage. He crouched down to inspect Bonnie’s feet. “They’re 
attached to a swiveling panel,” he called. “Yeah?” Jessica called back, not really listening. Carlton started pressing buttons as the rest of them watched the 
cameras. After a moment, Charlie left the room as well. “It’s too stuffy in here,” she explained. Jessica’s perfume and Carlton’s hair gel, both of which smelled nice enough out in the open, 
were starting to form a sickly miasma. She stepped out into the open to 
watch them experiment with the animals onstage. Most of the dining 
room was still dark. There were three colored spotlights suspended from 
the ceiling, aiming beams of purple, yellow, and green at the stage. The 
animals were cast now in unnatural colors, and dust in the beams of light 
shone like tiny stars, so many that it was difficult to see through them. 
The floor beneath the long tables was dusted with glitter that had fallen 
from the party hats, and as she looked around she noticed again the 
drawings that lined the walls of the place, all at the height of children’s 
eyes. They had always been there, and Charlie wondered now where her 
father had gotten the first ones when the restaurant opened. Had he used 
her own childish scribblings, or had he made them himself and stuck 
them up, forgeries to encourage actual children to display their art? The 
thought of her father hunched over his workbench, gripping an unsteady 
crayon with hands accustomed to manipulating microchips, made her 
want to giggle. She noticed the flashlight still on in the center of the 
room and went to switch it off. Don’t waste the battery, she said in her 
head, in chorus with Aunt Jen’s voice. She turned her attention to the stage. It looked like the others had 
gotten Chica and Bonnie to go through a series of small, specific 
movements. They could each swivel their entire bodies back and forth, 
and their hands, feet, and heads could be moved in various directions, but 
each movement was separate. Charlie went back to the control room and stuck her head in. “Can 
you make them do the dance?” she asked. “I don’t know how,” Carlton said, leaning back away from the 
monitors. “All of this must have been used to program the dances. I don’t 
think someone was in here manually controlling everything during the 
shows.” He shook his head with certainty. “That would have been 
impossible.” “Huh,” Charlie said. “Everyone, quiet,” Marla called out, and they all fell silent. For a long moment there was no sound, then Lamar said, “What?” Marla frowned, tilting her head to the side, listening for something. “I 
thought I heard something,” she said finally. “It was like ... pings of a 
music box?” Her mouth barely moved as she spoke. “It’s gone.” “Why isn’t Freddy moving?” Charlie asked. “I don’t know,” Carlton said. “I can’t find the controls for him.” “Hmm,” Jessica said, tapping the monitors. “These cameras don’t 
show the whole place.” Charlie peered at them, but they were mixed up, in no logical order. 
She couldn’t piece together a picture of the whole restaurant. “There’s three cameras on the stage, one on each animal, but there 
should be one on the whole thing,” Jessica was saying. “There’s the 
entrance to the kitchen, but not the kitchen itself, and you can’t see the 
hallway and the room with the little stage we were at last night.” “Maybe the cameras are just in the main room?” Carlton suggested. “Nope,” said Jessica. “There are cameras everywhere out there.” “So?” Carlton said. “So there’s got to be another control room!” Jessica said 
triumphantly. “Maybe down the hall by the other stage.” Charlie went back out into the main room again. She was feeling 
restless, less excited by the discoveries than the others, though she was 
not sure why. She watched the stage. Carlton was still playing with the 
buttons, Bonnie and Chica jerking in small, disjointed motions as Freddy 
Fazbear remained motionless, his eyes half-closed and his mouth slack, 
slightly open. “Hey,” Lamar said suddenly. “Marla. The music. I hear it now.” 
Everyone was silent again, then Marla shook her head. “Creepy,” she said, more excited this time, rubbing her hands 
together as though they were sharing campfire stories. Lamar looked 
thoughtfully at Freddy. “Let’s go find the other control room,” Jessica said, emerging with a 
determined look on her face. “Okay!” Marla jumped from the stage to join them, and they started 
scanning the rest of the stage, looking for a second door. “I’m staying in here,” Jason called from the first room. “This is so 
cool!” Chica swiveled back and forth rapidly on the stage as he pushed 
her button repeatedly. Lamar went to join Jason. “Okay, my turn,” he said, leaning on the door. He went in, not 
waiting for Jason’s response. Charlie stayed where she was, still staring at Freddy, frozen in the 
middle of his act. John came up next to her, and she felt a flash of 
irritation; she did not want to be cajoled into joining in the search. He 
stood there for a moment, looking at Freddy, then leaned in close to her 
and whispered, “I’m counting to one hundred. You’d better hide.” Surprised out of her thoughts, she looked at him for a moment, her 
irritation broken. He winked at her, then covered his eyes. It was absurd, 
it was childish, and in that moment it was the only thing she wanted to 
do. Slightly giddy, Charlie took off, looking for a place to hide. Jason pushed the series of buttons again with increasing frustration. 
“I’m bored now,” he announced. “How can you be bored?” Lamar said, wide-eyed. “They aren’t working anymore.” Jason continued to press buttons, no 
longer watching the monitors. Lamar studied the monitor. Bonnie’s head was up and turned to the 
side, his eyes appearing to watch the camera. “Well, go find your sister 
then,” he told Jason. “I don’t need her permission to be bored!” Impatiently, Jason 
climbed up and out of the control room. “Everyone is so sensitive,” Lamar muttered, suddenly realizing he 
was alone in the control room. He climbed out, but Jason was already 
gone. Jessica was leading the exploration party, heading toward the little 
stage they had discovered the night before. Marla looked back and saw 
Jason skipping to catch up just before they disappeared into the long hall. “Hey, be careful!” she called over her shoulder as Jason branched off 
in his own direction. Lamar caught up to the group and followed them on 
their way into the hall. The main dining room was empty now, though 
Jason could hear Charlie’s and John’s playful shouts echoing from the party rooms that extended off the main building. Left alone, Jason 
headed straight for the arcade. It was more dimly lit than the rest of the place, and without power the 
arcade machines appeared as towering black monoliths in a forgotten 
graveyard. The air was stale and thin. Jason went to the nearest console 
and pressed a few buttons, some stuck with age, but nothing happened. Plug it in, duh. He ducked behind the games to check, but even 
though the mounds of wires seemed impossibly tangled, it looked like 
they were plugged in. Maybe there’s a switch for the whole room? He 
started checking the walls. There was no obvious switch, but as Jason scanned the walls, he 
became distracted by the children’s drawings taped in clusters. Jason was 
too young to have any memories of his own from being at Freddy’s; even 
Hurricane itself was no more than a hazy set of impressions. But 
something about the pictures brought up a sense of nostalgia. They were 
all the same, really, the kinds of drawings he and every other kid had 
done—figures with circles for bodies and sticks for arms, in a multitude 
of colors. Only a few details showed which figures were the animals: 
Chica with her beak, Bonnie with his ears. It seemed like there had been 
a bit more attention paid to the drawings of Freddy Fazbear. They were a 
little better; the children had been a little more careful to make the details 
right. Jason found himself looking at one drawing in particular. It was 
the same as the others, maybe a little better: Bonnie the Bunny hugging a 
child. There was no name at the bottom. Jason took the picture off the 
wall, uncertain why this one in particular interested him so much. John burst into the room with a wide grin and a deep breath, but then, 
seeing that it was only Jason inside, he quickly returned to a stoic 
demeanor. “What’s up?” He nodded his head, playing it cool, then 
casually stepped away before silently returning to a sprint. Playing hide-and-seek like babies, Jason thought. I hope I never fall 
in love. He looked back down at the drawing and squinted as though not 
seeing correctly. The child was now facing away from Bonnie. Jason 
stared for a long moment. Wasn’t he hugging Bonnie before? He looked out at the main room, but Marla was out of sight, looking for the control 
room. Jason folded the drawing carefully and put it in his pocket. It was 
suddenly apparent how quiet it had become outside. Jason stepped out 
timidly and peeked into the dining room. “Guys?” he whispered, looking 
back once, then ventured out to find the group. Jessica, Lamar, Carlton, and Marla were still creeping slowly through the 
other half of the building. The spotlights from the dining room didn’t 
reach this far, only accenting edges and corners or specks of glitter. 
Jessica scanned the wall with her flashlight, looking for breaks in the 
plaster, and motioned to Marla to do the same. “We have to check for a hidden door,” she said. “The last one wasn’t really hidden,” Carlton pointed out. “Yeah,” Jessica conceded, but she kept her light on the wall, clearly 
not ready to give up the hunt. They passed two bathrooms they had not 
noticed the night before. “Do you think the plumbing still works?” Carlton said. “I really need 
to pee.” “What are you, five years old? I don’t want to hear that.” Jessica 
rolled her eyes and walked faster. When they got to the room with the little stage, everyone stopped. 
Marla and Lamar went closer to the stage, drawing together slightly as if 
unaware they were doing it. Even though Carlton and Jessica had been 
here the night before, it was as though they were seeing it anew through 
Marla’s and Lamar’s eyes. They still had not seen what was behind the 
curtain, Carlton realized suddenly. “I remember these posters,” Lamar said. “I remember this, too,” Marla said, pointing to the sign that read OUT 
OF order strung across the stage. “My whole life I’ve felt uneasy when 
I’ve seen that phrase, even if it’s just at a vending machine.” She laughed 
insincerely. “I know what you mean,” Lamar said softly, but before he could go 
on, Carlton interrupted. “Found it.” “Maybe,” Jessica amended. There was a door, close-set into the wall 
like the one below the stage—not quite hidden, but not meant to be 
noticed. It was painted black, like the walls of the room. Jessica turned 
the knob and pulled, but it was stuck tight. “Locked?” Lamar said. “I don’t think so.” “Let me try,” Marla said. She grabbed the knob and yanked, and it 
came open, sending her stumbling back. “Impressive!” Lamar said. “Yeah, well, taking care of Jason makes me tough.” Marla grinned as 
she knelt down to squeeze through the small door. It was almost the same as the first room: a set of eight TV screens 
and a large panel of unmarked black buttons. Carlton fumbled to find the 
master switch, reaching his hand into a dark comer. Then, with a click, 
the power came on, and a soft buzzing sound filled the room. Rich, 
bizarre reds and blues began streaming in under the door from the stage 
lights outside. Jessica and Carlton began switching the televisions on; 
they fiddled with the knobs until they were showing pictures, though 
most were very dark. From here they could see a long shot of the main 
stage, just as in the other room, but the rest of the cameras were showing 
other places and angles. While the first control room had only shots of 
the main dining room, here they could see into other areas of the 
restaurant—the private party rooms, which were set up with glittery 
decorations for events that would never happen; hallways; an office; and 
even what looked like a storage closet. The room behind them was 
visible as well, the camera trained on the OUT OF ORDER sign, now lit 
with otherworldly shades, and the curtain behind it. On one screen they 
could see Jason ducking back into the arcade. “Maybe I should go get him,” Marla said, but no one responded. Carlton started pressing buttons. Spotlights appeared and vanished on 
the stage in the main dining room as he did, illuminating first one animal 
and then another, lighting up empty spaces where someone might once 
have stood. He flipped a switch, and it seemed for a moment that nothing happened. Then Lamar started laughing, pointing at one of the screens. 
The pizza decorations lining the walls were spinning wildly, as though 
they might leap off and go rolling away. “I forgot they used to do that,” Lamar said as Carlton brought them 
slowly to a halt. There was a large black dial to one side of the buttons, and Carlton 
spun it, but it seemed to do nothing. “Let me try,” Lamar said. He elbowed Carlton to the side and pressed 
another button. There was a high-pitched whine; they all jumped, and it 
quickly faded down to a static hum. Lamar pressed the button again, and 
the sound was gone. “I guess we know what turns the speakers on,” Carlton said. “I bet we could figure out how to play the music,” Jessica said. She 
reached forward and pushed something else, and stage lights popped up 
while the main lights dimmed. The figures on the main stage suddenly 
stood out a little, commanding attention. She pushed it again, and the 
lights faded back to normal. “I love that,” Carlton said. “What?” asked Marla. “Stage lights,” he said. “One switch, and it’s like a whole ’nother 
world up there.” Another button flickered the stage lights on and off in the room 
behind them, while another started and stopped the little merry-go-round, 
its tinkling music grinding too slowly, like the ride itself was trying to 
remember how the song went. They managed to get the speakers on 
again without the feedback whine, but there was still only static. “I have an idea,” Jessica said, pushing to the front of the group. She 
switched on the static again, then started turning the knob back and forth. 
The hum grew lower in pitch, then higher, responding to her 
adjustments. “Progress,” Carlton said. “It’s still just static,” Marla said, unimpressed. Jessica turned it lower 
again, then snatched her hand from the dial like she had been bitten and 
punched the button, shutting the speakers off. “What?” Marla asked. Jessica remained motionless, her hands still suspended in the air. “What happened? Did it shock you?” Carlton asked. “It sounded like a voice,” Jessica answered. “What did it say?” Marla asked, apparently interested again. “I don’t know. Let me try again.” She turned the speaker on again, calling forth the static, and lowered 
the hum as they all listened, intent on the sound. As it sank to a lower 
register, just below the range of a human voice, they all heard it: grinding 
and broken words, almost too slow and distorted to be considered 
speech. They looked at one another. “What on earth?” Marla said. “No, it’s just random static,” Lamar said. He reached for the controls 
and dialed the pitch back up slowly. For another fleeting moment, there 
was a purposeful sound. “That sounded like singing,” Carlton said. “No,” Lamar said, sounding more unsure this time. “Do it again,” Marla said. Lamar did, but this time the static was 
empty. “Is that Charlie?” Marla suddenly became focused on a blurry figure 
moving down the dark hall toward them, sliding along the wall as though 
to remain unnoticed. 
Charlie was hurrying, almost skipping, and trying to find another place to 
hide. She glanced behind her, vaguely suspecting that John might be 
cheating. She moved through the darkness and toward the colorful glow 
of the small stage curtain, which was throwing eerie reds and blues onto 
the tables and party hats. Going down this passage had always felt like a 
long and perilous journey, one not to be made alone. She kept her gaze 
fixed behind her, letting the wall beside her guide her step. She knew 
John was close, probably creeping up on her in the dark. Suddenly she 
backed into something, stopping short. She had been moving faster than 
she thought, or more likely the hall was not as long as she remembered. She saw his shadow at the end of the hall—if he turned his head, he 
would see her. Without thinking, Charlie climbed up onto the platform 
that she had bumped into and ducked behind the curtain, tucking herself 
between the wall and a large, bulky prop, trying not to breathe. “Charlie?” he called, still far away. “Charlie!” Charlie felt her 
heartbeat quicken. There had been boys she liked, now and then, but this 
was something different. She wanted him to find her, but not quite yet. 
As she waited, her eyes adjusted to the darkness, and she was able to 
make out the shape of the curtain and the edge of the stage. She looked 
up at the object in front of her. No. Her body shuddered, then froze. It was standing over her. It was the thing from her father’s workshop, 
the misshapen thing that hung in the corner, shaken by random 
convulsions as its eyes burned silver. Does it hurt? Now it was still, and 
its eyes were blank and dull. It was staring straight ahead, insensate, and 
its arm with its hook hung useless at its side. She recognized his eyes, 
but he was somehow worse now, encased in hollow body parts and 
matted with red fur, with a stench of oil and glue. He had a name now; 
they called him Foxy. But she knew better. Charlie shrank away, pressing against the wall. Her heart was racing, 
and her breath was shallow, too fast. Her arm had been touching its leg, 
and now she felt a sudden itchiness from it, like she had been 
contaminated. She wiped her hand violently against her shirt as she 
began to panic. Run. She sprang away from it, pushing off the wall to get away, to move 
before it saw her, but the edge of the stage caught her foot. She stumbled 
forward, momentarily becoming entangled in the curtain. She struggled 
to get free when suddenly the thing’s arm jerked up, and the hook 
slashed at her arm. She ducked away too late, and it cut her. The pain 
was shocking, like freezing water. She tripped backward and felt herself 
falling for long seconds, and then she was caught. “Charlie? Are you okay?” It was John; he had caught her. She tried to nod, but she was shaking. She looked at her arm. There was a cut above the elbow, almost four 
inches long. It was bleeding freely, and she covered it with her hand, the 
gaps between her fingers welling over as her own blood leaked through. “What happened?” Marla asked, rushing up behind her. “Charlie, I’m 
so sorry, I must have hit a button that caused it to move. Are you okay?” Charlie nodded, a little less shaky. “I’m fine,” she said. “It’s not that 
bad.” She moved her arm around experimentally. “See? No nerve 
damage,” she said. “I’ll be fine.” Carlton, Jessica, and Lamar came hurrying out of the control room. “We should take her to the E.R.,” Carlton said. “I’m fine,” Charlie insisted. She stood up, refusing John’s help, and 
braced herself on the stage for a moment. She heard her Aunt Jen’s voice 
in her head: How much blood have you lost? You don’t need to go to a 
hospital She could move her arm just fine, and she would not bleed to 
death from this. She felt dizzy, though. “Charlie, you look like a ghost,” John said. “We need to get you out 
of here.” “Okay,” she said. Her thoughts were scattered, and the injury hurt 
less than it should have. She took deep breaths as they headed for the 
exit, grounding herself. John handed her a piece of cloth, and she put it to 
the cut to slow the bleeding. “Thanks,” she said, looking at him. Something was missing. “Was 
that your tie?” she asked, and he shrugged. “Do I look like a tie person?” She grinned. “I thought it looked good on you.” “Jason!” Marla yelled as they passed the arcade. “Move it, or I’m 
leaving you behind!” Jason ran to catch up. “Is Charlie okay?” he said anxiously. Marla caught her breath and put 
her arm around him. “She’s fine,” she reassured him. They walked briskly down the same corridor that they entered 
through. Jason looked back as he was being guided out, studying the 
pictures on the wall once more before losing sight of them. The colored lights from the stage were fading, and the flashlight was throwing shapes 
and shadows on everything, making the drawings difficult to see, but 
Jason could swear he saw the figures moving in the pictures. They all hurried back through the empty building and out to the 
parking lot, not keeping watch for the guard. When they made it out to 
the car, Lamar, who had grabbed the big flashlight, flipped it on and 
shone it at Charlie’s arm. She looked down at the cut. “Do you need stitches?” Marla asked. “I am so sorry, Charlie.” “We were all being careless. It’s not your fault,” Charlie said. She 
knew she sounded annoyed, but she didn’t mean to; her voice was tight 
and clipped with pain. The shock had worn off, but that meant the wound 
had begun to hurt. “It’s fine,” Charlie said, and after a long moment the 
others gave in somewhat reluctantly. “We should at least get you some stuff to clean that up and bandage 
it,” Marla said, wanting to do something to atone, however small. “There’s a twenty-four-hour drugstore just off the main road,” 
Carlton offered. “Charlie, why don’t you go with Marla, and I’ll drive your car back 
to the motel?” Jessica said. “I’m fine,” Charlie protested halfheartedly, but she handed Jessica 
the keys. “You’re a good driver, right?” Jessica rolled her eyes. “People from New York know how to drive, 
Charlie.” John lingered a moment as Charlie was getting into Marla’s car. She 
smiled at him. “I’m fine,” she said. “I’ll see you tomorrow.” He looked at her like 
there was something more he wanted to say, but he just nodded and left. “Okay,” Marla said. “To the drugstore!” Charlie twisted in her seat to look at Jason. “Did you have fun?” she 
asked. “The games don’t work,” he said, obviously preoccupied. The drugstore was only a few minutes away. “You stay in the car,” 
Marla commanded to Jason as they pulled to a stop. “Don’t leave me out here,” Jason pleaded. “I told you to stay,” she repeated, a little confused by the fear in his 
voice. He didn’t answer, and she and Charlie headed inside. As soon as they were gone, Jason pulled the drawing out of his 
pocket. He held it up under the faint lights of the parking lot to examine. 
It had not changed back: Bonnie the Bunny was reaching toward a child, 
who was facing away from him. Curious, Jason scraped at the crayon 
lines with his fingernail. The wax came off easily, leaving its trace on the 
paper. 

As soon as Marla passed into the fluorescent-lit, air-controlled drugstore, 
she sighed and put her hands to her temples. “Oh, he’s such a little brat,” 
she said. “I like him,” Charlie said honestly. She was still using John’s tie to 
stanch the bleeding, and now, in brighter light, she peeled it back to see 
the cut. The bleeding had almost stopped; it was not as bad as it had first 
appeared, though the tie was irreparably ruined. “Hey,” she said. “How 
come you brought Jason, anyway?” Marla didn’t answer right away, setting her sights on the first-aid 
aisle and heading for it. “Here we are,” she said. “What do you think, gauze?” “Sure, but don’t call me Gauze.” Charlie leaned into Marla but was 
ignored. “Antiseptic,” Marla continued, grabbing the items. “The thing is,” 
she said, “so Jason’s dad and our mom have been married since before he 
was bom. I mean, obviously. And they’re probably getting divorced. I 
know about it, but Jason doesn’t.” “Oh no,” Charlie said. “They’re fighting all the time,” Marla went on, “and it scares him, 
you know? I mean, my dad left when I was still a little kid, so I grew up 
with that; I was used to it. Plus, I got to have a great stepdad. But for 
him, it’s gonna feel like the end of the world. And they’re sure not doing 
anything to make it easier—they’re fighting right in front of us. So I 
didn’t want to leave him alone with that for a week.” “I’m so soriy, Marla,” Charlie said. “Yeah, it’s okay,” Marla said. “I’m leaving in a year anyway. I’m just 
worried about the brat out there.” “He’s really not a brat,” Charlie said, and Marla grinned. “I know; he’s pretty great, right? I kinda like having him around.” They paid for the supplies. The clerk, a teenage boy, didn’t bat an eye 
at Charlie’s moderately blood-spattered appearance. Outside, they sat on 
the hood of the car. Marla started to open the bottle of antiseptic, but 
Charlie held out a hand for it. “I can do it myself,” she said. Marla looked like she was about to 
argue, but she swallowed whatever she was about to say and handed 
Charlie the bottle and a piece of gauze. As Charlie awkwardly cleaned 
her arm, Marla smiled impishly. “Speaking of people we like having around, are you having fun with 
John?” “Ow! That stings. And I don’t know what you mean,” Charlie said 
primly, suddenly putting all her attention on her task. “You do, too. He’s following you around like a little puppy, and you 
are loving it.” Charlie bit back a smile. “How about you and Lamar?” she retorted. “Me and who now?” Marla said. “Here.” She held out a hand for the 
bloody gauze, and Charlie handed it to her, reaching for a clean strip. 
“You’re going to have to let me tape it,” Marla said. Charlie nodded and 
held the gauze in place as Marla reached for the tape. “Come on,” Charlie went on. “I see the way you look at him.” “Nope!” Marla smoothed down the last piece of tape and put 
everything back in the bag. “Seriously,” Charlie said as they got back into the car. “You’re 
adorable together. And your names are anagrams of each other. Marla 
and Lamar! It’s meant to be!” Both laughing, they headed back to the 
motel. 
When they got to the motel, Jessica was already there—and so was 
John. He stood up when Charlie walked in. “I was worried about you. I thought maybe I could sleep on the 
floor?” He waited nervously for her reaction, as though he had realized 
only upon seeing her that he might have overstepped her boundaries. On another day, in another place, Charlie might have been annoyed 
by his excessive concern. But here, in Hurricane, she was glad to have it. 
We should all be together, she thought. It’s safer. She wasn’t really 
afraid, but unease still clung to her like cobwebs, and John’s presence 
had been a calming one ever since they arrived. He was still looking at 
her, waiting for a response, and she smiled at him. “As long as you don’t mind sharing the floor with Jason,” she said. He grinned. “Just let me have a pillow and I’ll be fine.” Marla tossed 
him one, and he stretched elaborately, set it on the ground, and lay down. They all went to bed almost immediately. Charlie was exhausted; 
now that her injury had been cleaned and bound, the adrenaline of the 
night left her body all at once, leaving her drained and a little shaky. She didn’t even bother changing into pajamas; she just collapsed on the bed 
next to Jessica and was asleep in seconds. 
Charlie woke just after dawn, when the sky was still pale and a little 
pink. She looked around the room. The others wouldn’t be up for hours, 
she suspected, but she was too alert to try to fade back into sleep. She 
grabbed her shoes and, stepping over Jason’s and John’s sleeping bodies, 
went outside. The motel was set a little way back off the road, trees 
spread thickly around and behind it. Charlie sat down on the curb to put 
her shoes on, wondering if she could go for a walk in the woods without 
getting lost. The air was crisp, and she felt renewed and energized by the 
brief night’s sleep. Her arm hurt, a dull and pulsing pain that kept 
drawing her attention, but it had not bled through the bandages. Charlie 
usually found it easy to ignore pain when she knew she was not in 
danger from it. The woods were inviting, and she decided to risk getting 
lost. As she was about to stand, John sat down beside her. “Morning,” he said. His clothes were rumpled from his night on the 
motel floor, and his hair was a mess. Charlie held back a laugh. “What?” 
he said. She shook her head. “You look a little like your old self today,” she said. He looked down 
at himself and shrugged. “Clothes don’t make the man. What are you doing up so early?” “I don’t know, couldn’t sleep. What about you?” “Somebody stepped on me.” Charlie winced. “Sorry,” she said, and he laughed. “I’m just kidding. I was awake.” “I was going to go for a walk,” she said, pointing at the tree line. 
“Out there, somewhere. Do you want to come?” “Yeah, definitely.” They headed into the woods, and John hung back for a moment and 
surreptitiously retucked his shirt, trying to smooth out the wrinkles. 
Charlie pretended not to notice. There was no path, and so they made their way through the trees at 
random, glancing back now and then to be sure they could still make out 
the motel parking lot. John stumbled over a fallen branch, and Charlie 
reached out with her good arm to catch him before he fell. “Thanks,” he said. “Strong arm, too.” “Well, you caught me yesterday, so it’s only fair that I catch you 
back. Now we’re even,” she said. She looked around. The motel was 
scarcely in sight, and she felt concealed, made safe by the woods. She 
could say anything here, and it would be all right. She leaned back 
against a tree, picking idly at the bark behind her. “You know Freddy’s 
wasn’t the first restaurant?” She said it abruptly, surprising herself, and 
John looked at her quizzically, like he had not quite heard her. She didn’t 
want to say it again, but she forced herself to. “Freddy’s, it wasn’t my 
dad’s first restaurant. There was a diner, a little one. It was before my 
mom left.” “I had no idea,” John said slowly. “Where was it?” “I don’t know. It’s one of those memories from when you’re a little 
kid, you know? You only remember the things that are right around you. 
I remember the linoleum on the kitchen floor; it was this black-and-white 
diamond pattern, but I don’t remember where the restaurant was, or what 
it was called.” “Yeah,” John said. “We took a vacation to a theme park when I was, 
like, three, and all I remember is the backseat of the car. So were they 
there?” His voice dropped a little quieter when he said it, almost 
reflexively. Charlie nodded. “Yeah. There was a bear and a rabbit, I think. Sometimes the details 
get mixed up in my head. They’re not like normal memories,” she said, 
needing him to understand the story’s defects before she told him the 
rest. “It’s like when you have a realistic dream, and in the morning 
you’re not sure if it really happened or not. It’s just impressions, little 
snatches of time. It’s ...” She trailed off. She wasn’t explaining it right; 
she was choosing all the wrong words. She was reaching back too far in 
her memory, to a time when she did not yet speak. It was a time when 
she did not have the words to name the things she saw, and so now, when she tried to recall them, the words could never be right. She looked at John. He was watching her patiendy, waiting for her to 
go on. She wanted to tell him this story from her life that she had never 
told. It was not even a story, not really, just something that nagged at the 
edge of her mind, something flashing by randomly in the corner of her 
eye. She was not entirely certain it was real, and so she told no one. She 
wanted to tell John, because she wanted to speak it to another person, 
because he looked at her with trusting eyes and she knew he would listen 
to and believe her. Because he had cared for her a long time ago, because 
he had caught her when she fell, and he had come here to sleep and keep 
watch all night. And, thought a pragmatic, slightly cruel part of her, 
because he was not part of her real life. She could tell him this, tell him 
anything, and when she returned home, it would be as though it had 
never happened. She wanted suddenly to touch him, have confirmation 
that he was really there, that this was not another dream. She reached out 
her hand to him, and, surprised but glad, he took it. He stayed where he 
was, as if afraid that moving in closer would scare her. They stayed that 
way for a moment, and then she let go, and she told him the story the 
way she spoke it in her head, the memories of a small child mixing with 
the things she had come to understand as she grew older. There was another restaurant, rustic and small, with red checkered 
cloths on the tables, and a kitchen you could see into from the dining 
area, and they all were there together. Her father and her mother and us. 
When Charlie was very, very young, she was never alone. There was 
Charlie, and there was a little boy, a little boy so close to Charlie that 
remembering him was like remembering a part of herself. They were 
always together; she learned to say we before she learned to say I. They played together on the floor of the kitchen, sometimes drawing 
pictures while hiding under a hardwood table. She remembered the 
shuffling of feet and the shadows of customers walking by. Light was 
broken by a slowly turning fan and thrown across the floor in ribbons. 
She remembered the smell of an ashtray and the hearty laughter of adults 
lost in a good story while their children played. Very often she would hear her father’s laugh echoing from a distant corner as he talked with customers. When Charlie pictured him laughing 
like that now it was with a little ache, a sucking feeling in the center of 
her chest, because his eyes were bright and his smile was easy and 
because he wanted them all to be a part of the restaurant, to share his 
work freely. Because he was not afraid to let his children roam and 
explore. He was yet untouched by grief, and so while he looked a little 
like the father she truly remembered, he was not the same man at all. Charlie was looking down at the ground as she talked, at the dirt and 
stones and cracked remains of leaves, and her hand was at her back, 
stripping bark from the tree. Does that hurt the tree? she thought, and 
forced her hands away, knotting them in front of her. The restaurant was open until late at night, and so when they began to 
falter, Charlie and the little boy would crawl into the pantry with 
blankets and soft toys to sleep until it was time to close. She remembered 
using sacks of flour as pillows, big bags almost as long as they were tall. 
They would snuggle down together and whisper words of nonsense that 
meant deep things only to the two of them, and Charlie would drift into 
sleep, half listening to the warm sounds of the restaurant, the clank of 
dishes and the murmur of grown-up talk, and the sound of the bear and 
the rabbit as they danced to their chiming tunes. They loved the animals, the yellowish-brown bear and the matching 
rabbit, who wandered the restaurant, dancing and singing for the 
customers, and sometimes just for Charlie and the little boy. They 
sometimes moved stiffly and mechanically, and sometimes with fluid, 
human movements, and while the boy liked the animals best when they 
acted like people, Charlie liked them the other way. Their stilted 
movements, their lifeless eyes, and their occasional glitches fascinated 
her: They acted alive, but were not. The narrow yet bottomless chasm 
between those things, alive and not-alive, enthralled her, though she 
would never have been able to explain why. “I think they were costumes,” Charlie said now, still looking down at 
the ground. “The animals weren’t always robots; the bear and the bunny 
were costumes, and sometimes people wore them, and sometimes my 
father put it onto one of his robots, and you could always tell which it was by the way they danced.” Charlie stopped. There was more, but she could not bring herself to 
speak. There was something else that made her lock down her mind and 
force the memory away, the part that made her unwilling to ask Aunt Jen 
for answers, because she was afraid of what those answers might be. 
Charlie had not dared to look at John the whole time she was talking, 
staring only at the ground, at her hands, at her sneakers. Now she did 
look at him, and he was rapt, seeming almost to be holding his breath. He 
waited, not wanting to speak until he was sure she was finished. “That’s all I remember,” she said at last, even though it was a lie. “Wait, who was the little boy?” John said. Charlie shook her head, frustrated that he had not understood. “He was mine,” she said. “I mean, he was my brother. We were the 
same.” She was speaking childishly, as if the memory had taken hold of 
her, forcing her to regress. She cleared her throat. “Sorry,” she said, 
speaking more slowly, trying to choose her words with care. “I think he 
was my twin brother.” She saw John open his mouth, about to ask the question, What 
happened to him? But there must have been something in her face, 
something warning, because he held it back and said instead, “Do you 
think that place was around here? I mean, I guess it could have been 
anywhere. Another state, even.” “I don’t know,” Charlie said slowly, looking over her shoulders, then 
up at the trees. “This all feels the same. It feels like I could walk around 
any corner and it could be there.” Her voice began to break. “I want to 
find it,” she added suddenly, and as soon as she said it, it was what she 
wanted to do. “Well, what do you remember about it?” John said enthusiastically, 
almost lunging forward like an eager dog on a lead. He must have been 
dying to go looking from the moment she mentioned the place. Charlie 
smiled but shook her head. “I really don’t remember much,” she said. “I don’t know how much 
help I can actually be; like I said, the things I remember are just little 
scraps, they’re not information. It’s like a picture book.” She closed her eyes, trying to see the place in her mind’s eye. “The floor would shake.” 
She lifted her head as the thought became clear. “A train?” she asked as 
though John would know. “I remember this thunderous sound every day; 
it was the biggest sound I’d ever heard. I don’t mean loud, I mean you 
could feel it in your whole body, like it was rumbling right through your 
chest.” “It must have been close to some tracks, then, right?” John said. “Yeah,” Charlie said with a spark of hope. “There was a tree out in 
front,” she went on. “It looked like an old, angry monster, hunched 
forward and wizened, with two giant, gnarled branches reaching out like 
arms. Whenever we left for the night, I hid my face in my father’s shirt 
so I wouldn’t have to see it as we walked by.” “What else?” John said. “Were there stores, or other restaurants?” “No. I mean, I don’t think so. I’m sorry.” She scratched her head. 
“It’s gone.” “It’s not enough,” John said, a little frustrated. “It could be anywhere, 
a train and a tree. There must be something else you can remember. 
Anything?” “No,” Charlie said. The more she pushed herself to remember, the 
harder it got. She was grasping blindly, and it was like trying to get hold 
of living creatures, as if the memories saw her coming and slipped away. She tossed out fragments as she managed to catch them: the 
tablecloths, red-and-white checked, and made of real cloth, not plastic. 
She remembered grabbing at one, unsteady on her feet, and the whole 
table setting falling down on top of her, plates and glasses shattering 
around her as she covered her head. Charlotte, are you okay? Her 
father’s voice seemed clearer than ever. There was a squeaky floorboard in the corner of the diner that Charlie 
liked to push on, making it sing as if it made music. There was a picnic 
table out back where they used to sit in the sun, one leg of it sinking in 
the soft ground. There was the song her parents used to sing in the car 
whenever they came home from a trip; they would burst into it when 
they were a little way from home, and then they’d start laughing as if 
they had done something clever. “It’s nothing helpful,” Charlie said. “Just kid stuff.” She felt a little 
light-headed. She had spent so many years avoiding these memories; her 
mind shied away as if from snakes. Having done it, she felt strange and a 
little guilty, like she had done something wrong. But she also felt 
something that might have been joy, in the things she never allowed 
herself to think of. The memories of that time were unsafe, there were 
traps and snares wrought into their very substance, but there were 
precious things among them. “Sorry,” she said. “I can’t remember more.” “No, that’s really impressive. I can’t believe you remember that far 
back at all,” he said. “I didn’t mean to push you,” he added a little 
sheepishly, then looked thoughtful. “What was the song?” “I think it was the same one they dance to at Freddy’s,” Charlie said. “No, the one your parents sang in the car.” “Oh,” she said. “I don’t know if I remember it. It wasn’t really a 
song, you know? It was just a little line.” She closed her eyes, picturing 
the car, trying to envision the backs of her parents’ heads as though she 
were still in the backseat. She waited, trusting her mind to give it up, and 
after a moment, it did. She hummed it, just six notes. “ ‘We’re back in harmony,’ ” she sang. “And they’d, you know, 
harmonize,” she added, embarrassed by her parents even now. John’s 
expression was blank for a moment as the words at first seemed 
meaningless, but then his eyes lit with promise. “Charlie, there’s a town north of here called New Harmony.” “Huh,” was all she said for a moment. She listened to the words in 
her head, wanting them to set off an inspiration, trip a memory, but they 
did not. “I feel like that should ring a bell, but it doesn’t,” she said. “Sorry. I 
mean, it doesn’t sound wrong, but it doesn’t sound right, either.” She 
was disappointed, but John still had that thoughtful look on his face. “Come on,” he said, extending his hand. Charlie wiped her cheek and 
took a shaky breath, then looked to him. She nodded with an exhausted 
smile and got to her feet. 
“Should we wait for everyone to wake up?” John said as they emerged 
into the parking lot after a brisk walk back. “No,” Charlie said with unexpected vehemence. “I don’t want 
everyone there for this,” she added in softer tones. Just the thought of the 
whole group going along made her anxious. It was too risky, too private; 
she had no idea what they might find or what it might do to her, and she 
couldn’t abide the thought of making those discoveries with an audience. “Okay,” John said. “Just us, then.” “Just us.” Charlie went inside and grabbed her car keys, moving slowly so as 
not to disturb the others. As she was heading back to the door, Jason 
stirred and opened his eyes, looking up at her like he wasn’t quite sure 
who she was. She put a finger to her lips. He nodded sleepily and closed his eyes again, and she hurried out the 
door. She tossed the keys to John and got in on the passenger’s side. “There’s a map in here,” she said, jostling open the glove-box door. 
The map fell out amid a pile of hand warmers and emergency food 
rations. “Your aunt strikes again.” John smiled. Charlie held the map just a few inches from her face. New Harmony 
was close, only about half an hour away. “Think you can navigate?” he asked. “Aye, Cap’n!” Charlie said. “Turn left out of the lot.” “Thanks,” he said wryly. They drove back through the town and out the other side, the houses 
farther and farther between as they went. Each one stood solitary, 
connected only by sagging power lines. Charlie watched the telephone 
poles and the dipping wires repeating hypnotically as if they would go on 
forever, then blinked, breaking the spell. Ahead of them the mountains 
rose up ancient and dark against the clear blue sky; they looked more 
solid than anything else around them, more real, and maybe they were. 
They had been here, watching, long before the houses, long before the 
roads, and they would be here long after they were all gone. “Nice day,” John said, and she looked at him, tearing her gaze from the view. “Yeah,” Charlie said. “I kind of forgot how beautiful it is out here.” “Yeah,” he said. He was quiet for a moment, then looked at her 
sideways, and Charlie couldn’t tell if he was being shy or just keeping 
his eyes on the road. “It’s weird,” he said at last. “When I was a kid, the mountains kind of 
scared me, especially when we were driving in the dark. They were like 
some monstrous beasts looming over us.” He laughed a little, but Charlie 
did not. “I know what you mean,” she said, then grinned at him. “I think 
they’re pretty much just mountains, though. Hey,” she said suddenly, 
“you never told me what your story was about.” “My story?” He flicked his eyes at her again, a little nervous. “Yeah, you said you got a story published. What was it about?” “I mean, it was just a little magazine, just local,” he said, still 
reluctant. Charlie waited, and finally he continued. “It’s called The 
Little Yellow House.’ It’s about a boy,” he said. “He’s ten years old. His 
parents are fighting all the time, and he’s afraid they’re going to get 
divorced. They fight, and he overhears them saying awful things to each 
other, and he hides in his room with the door shut, but he can still hear 
them. “So he starts looking out the window, at the house across the street. 
They sort of keep their curtains open just enough that he can glimpse 
inside. He watches them go in and out of the house, this family, and he 
starts making up stories about them, imagining who they are and what 
they do, and after a while they start feeling more real to him than his own 
family.” He glanced at Charlie again, as if trying to gauge her reaction, and 
Charlie smiled. He went on. “So summer comes, and his family goes away for a week, and it’s 
miserable, and when they get back, the family in the house across the 
street has moved away. There’s nothing left, just a for sale sign 
hanging in front.” Charlie nodded, waiting for him to continue, but he looked at her a little sheepishly. “That’s the end,” he said. “Oh,” she said. “That’s really sad.” He shrugged. “I guess. I’m working on something happy now, 
though.” “What’s that?” He grinned at her. “It’s a secret.” Charlie smiled back. It felt good to be out here, good to just be 
driving out into the horizon. She cranked the window down and put her 
arm out into the air, enjoying the feel of the rushing wind. It’s not wind 
rushing, it’s us, she thought. “What about you?” John said. “What about me?” Charlie said, still happily playing against the 
wind. “Come on, what’s the life of Charlie like these days?” Charlie smiled at him and pulled her arm back into the car. “I don’t 
know,” she said. “Pretty boring.” There was a part of her that did not 
want to tell him for the same reason she wanted him with her now: She 
did not want her new life to mix with the old. But John had told her 
something real, something personal, and she felt like she owed him the 
same in return. “It’s all right,” she said at last. “My aunt is cool, even if she does 
sometimes look at me like she’s not quite sure where I came from. 
School’s fine, I have friends and all that, but it feels so temporary. I have 
another year, but I feel like I’m already gone.” “Gone where?” John asked, and Charlie shrugged. “I wish I knew. College, I guess. I’m not sure what comes next.” “Nobody ever knows what comes next, I guess,” he said. “Do you 
—?” He stopped himself, but she prodded him. “Do I what?” she said teasingly. “Do I ever think of you?” He 
flushed, and she instantly regretted the words. “I was going to say, do you ever see your mom,” he said quietly. “Oh,” she said. “No, I don’t.” It exhausted Charlie to think of her mother, and she thought her mother felt the same. Too much hung 
between them—not quite blame, because neither of them were to blame 
for what had happened, but something close to it. Their pain, individual, 
radiated off them both like auras, pushing at each other like magnets with 
the poles reversed, forcing them apart. “Charlie?” John was saying her name, and she looked over at him. “Sorry,” she said. “I drifted for a second.” “You got any music in this car?” he asked, and she nodded eagerly, 
seizing on the diversion. She bent over, picked up cassettes scattered on 
the floor, and started reading labels. He made fun of her tapes, she 
argued back, and after some playful bickering, she shoved a tape into the 
player and settled back again to stare out the window. “I think this is where the map’s usefulness ends.” John gestured to 
the road ahead. “The whole area’s pretty much blank; I think what we’re 
looking for isn’t going to be on this map.” He folded the map and tucked 
it neady to the side of the seat, craning his neck out the window to see 
what they were passing. “Yeah,” she said. It looked like they had returned to civilization. 
Single houses littered the fields, and dirt roads branched off in all 
directions. The landscape was mostly bushes and short trees, the whole 
area nestled between rows of low-lying mountains. John looked at Charlie, hoping she would notice something that 
would point them in the right direction. “Nothing?” he said, though her blank stare had already given him the 
answer. “No,” she said plainly. She didn’t want to elaborate. The houses became fewer and more scattered, and the fields of dry 
brush seemed to stretch wider, giving the whole area a feeling of 
desertion. John found himself glancing over at Charlie at short intervals, 
waiting for a signal, half expecting her to tell him to stop and turn 
around, but Charlie just stared into the distance, her eyes fixed on 
nothing, resting her cheek in her hand. “Let’s go back,” she said finally, sounding resigned. “We could have missed something,” John said. He slowed the car, looking for a spot to make a U-turn. “We missed a lot back there; maybe 
it’s down one of those dirt roads.” Charlie laughed. “Really? You think we missed a lot?” She grew thoughtful. “No, 
none of this feels right. Nothing rings a bell.” She felt a tear spill onto 
her cheek, and she swiped it away before John could notice. “Okay, no worries,” Charlie said abruptly, pulling herself back from 
reverie. “Let’s grab a bite, just you and me.” John smiled, still checking 
his mirrors for a place to turn. Charlie shivered. Then something caught 
her eye. She almost jumped in her seat, sitting straight up. “STOP!” she shouted. John slammed on the brakes and the car 
skidded, dust billowing up all around the car. When they stopped, 
Charlie sat silently as John checked the rearview mirror again, his heart 
racing. “Are you okay?” he said, but Charlie was already out of the car. 
“Hey!” he called after her, scrambling out of his seat belt and rushing to 
lock the car behind him. Charlie was running back toward the town, but her eyes were on the 
field beside the road. He caught up quickly, trotting along beside her 
without asking questions. After a few minutes, Charlie slowed and began 
shuffling her feet on the ground, peering down as though she had lost 
something small and valuable in the dirt. “Charlie?” John said. Until this moment he had not thought about 
what it was they were doing. It was an adventure, a chance to be alone 
with Charlie, to run off after a clue, but now she was starting to worry 
him. He brushed his hair back from his face. “Charlie?” he said again, his 
voice touched with concern, but Charlie did not look at him; she was 
intent on whatever she had found. “Right here,” she said. She made a sharp turn toward the edge of the 
road, where something protruded and snaked across the ground. John 
knelt carefully, brushing some of the loose dirt with his hand and 
exposing a flat metal beam. He kept going, uncovering a track that 
stretched across the road and went off into the field in both directions. It 
took him a moment to speak; it was as though the earth itself had tried to conceal it from them. Be careful, he thought with a minor pang of alarm, 
but he brushed aside the feeling. “I think we found your tracks,” he said, 
looking up at Charlie, but she was nowhere in sight. “Charlie?” He took 
a quick look up and down the road, but there were no cars. “Charlie!” he 
called again, waving the dust away from his face and racing to catch up. 
When he reached her, he hung back a little, afraid to disturb her intense 
focus. There was a cluster of trees up ahead, gathered together as though 
around a campfire, tall and short or thick and scraggly. Charlie dragged 
her foot along the track as she walked, as if it might vanish if she ceased 
to touch it. “What is that, an old station?” John asked, squinting and blocking the 
sun with his hand. There was a long building nestled in the trees, its 
color blending in with the small grove, making it difficult to spot. The tracks veered away, heading off toward the mountains, and 
Charlie stopped dragging her foot along them, letting them go. John 
finally caught up, and they walked through the dry grass together toward 
the grove of trees, not far away now. “There has to be a road.” Charlie strayed almost randomly, heading 
away from the building. John hesitated. “But...” He gestured toward the building, then followed her, looking 
back to make sure he knew the way back to the car. Before long, the 
ground leveled out beneath their feet. Old pavement, broken with weeds 
and mounds of crumbling rock, stretched across the field in a narrow, 
almost hidden path, leading once again toward the small building. “This is it,” Charlie said softly. John approached her carefully, then 
stood at her side. They walked the road together, dodging around the 
pillars of grass that shot up from the breaks and holes. The tree was 
there, the one with reaching arms and ghastly face, but it was no longer 
frightening, no longer as Charlie remembered. It must have already been 
dead when she was a child, she realized. Its limbs had fallen off, leaving 
jagged holes where they had been, and they lay where they fell, rotting 
into the ground. The tree seemed a frail and weak shade of its former 
self, only recognizable by the stumps and bulges on its side that had made its face. Now even the face looked tired. The building itself was long and dilapidated. It was a single story, 
with a dark roof and weather-beaten walls. The place had once been 
painted red, but time and sun and rain had won out over the paint; it was 
peeled and curling, whole long strips of it gone and the wood beneath 
showing, dark with what might be rot. Its foundation was overgrown 
with tall grass, and Charlie thought it looked as if it were sinking, as 
though the whole structure was slowly being swallowed by the earth. 
Charlie grabbed John’s arm as they neared it, then let it go and 
straightened her back. She felt as though she were preparing for a fight, 
as if the building itself might attack if it sensed weakness. Charlie went warily up the few steps to the door, sticking to the edges 
and testing the wood before she let down her full weight. The stairs held, 
but there were soft, splintered patches in the middle she didn’t want to 
try. John didn’t follow her right away, sidetracked by something nearly 
hidden in the grass. “Charlie.” He held it up: a battered metal sign with the painted words 
fredbear’S family diner in red script. Charlie gave a gentle smile. Of course this is it. I’m home. John came up the stairs behind her and set the sign down carefully by 
the door, and they went inside. The door swung open easily. Light 
streamed in through the windows on all sides, revealing emptiness and 
decay. Unlike Freddy’s, this place had been cleaned out. The wooden 
floors seemed intact, but they were warped from weather. Sunlight was 
streaming in, unobstructed, and went where it wanted without furniture 
or people to block its path. Charlie looked up at the ceiling fan; it was 
still there, but one of its blades was missing. There were double doors to their right with circular windows. Unlike 
the dining area, which was breached with sunlight and the sounds of the 
outside, the room behind the double doors was still pitch black. John was 
more interested in this than Charlie, and he carefully peered into one of 
the windows, obviously tempted to nudge it open and see what was 
inside. Charlie left him to his curiosity and walked farther into the dining 
room, which she only knew as the dining room through memory. Now it was a vacant and lonely room, stretching long and narrow, at least fifty 
feet, growing darker as it went. There was a slightly elevated stage at the 
end of the room, and Charlie realized as she looked around that the place 
had probably once been a dance hall, and the long desk by the entrance 
that her parents had used for a cash register had probably been a bar. She 
went over to it and saw that she was right: There were even grooves and 
scratches in the wood floor where barstools had once dug their feet. She 
tried to picture it, a dark bar with a country-western band playing on the 
stage, but she could not. When Charlie looked at the stage, she could still see two animatronic 
animals in shadow, moving in unnatural twists and turns. She could hear 
echoes of carnival music and distant laughter. She could still smell the 
cigarette smoke in the air. She hesitated before going farther, as though 
the ghosts she remembered might linger on the stage. She tried to catch a 
glimpse of where John was. He finally had the door to the kitchen half¬ 
open and was sticking his head inside. Charlie turned her attention back 
to the stage and walked toward it across the creaking floor. Even the 
smallest sound was deafening, accompanied by faint whistles as the wind 
slipped through cracks in the windows and walls. Strips of wallpaper had 
peeled down and hung flat against the wall, inert until a breeze lifted 
them up, and they wagged like thin fingers pointing at Charlie as she 
walked. Charlie stood at the base of the stage, studying the floor carefully for 
traces of what might have stood there before. All that remained were 
holes where bolts had once been. The corners looked blackened, with the 
shapes of coils and wires etched into dirt and wood. Everything is gone. Her head jerked toward the corner to her right; there was another 
door. Of course there is another door. This is why you are here. She 
stood still, looking at the door, but not ready to touch it. She was grasped 
with a strange and illogical fear, as though spiders and boogeymen might 
come rushing out. The door was ajar. Charlie looked back toward John again, hesitant to 
go on without him. As though he heard her calling to him, he leaned out of the kitchen door with a wide-eyed expression. “This is really creepy.” 
He was obviously enjoying himself, like a kid in a haunted house. “Can you come with me?” Charlie’s plea came as a surprise to John, 
who seemed pleased but irritated at the same time, having been enjoying 
his own adventure on the other side of the building. “Two seconds,” he 
promised, then disappeared again. She rolled her eyes, disappointed but not surprised that his childish 
curiosity would take priority. She rested the back of her hand against the 
aged wooden door and gently guided it open, bracing herself against 
whatever might be inside. Whatever she had been expecting, this wasn’t it. It was a closet, the 
inside extending off to her left about eight or nine feet into darkness. 
There were horizontal poles mounted along the walls where hangers had 
once been. Square shapes imprinted in the dust filled her mind with 
images of boxes, maybe speakers. As she stepped inside, she pushed the door open all the way, trying to 
let in as much light as possible. As she walked farther in, she let her hand 
drag along the wall. Although nothing was there now, she could feel 
heavy cloth, coats, and sweaters hanging. No. These were costumes. Costumes had hung here in the dark, hiding their colors but allowing 
themselves to be felt by every cheek and small hand that passed through. 
Rubber-padded palms and fingers swayed this way and that. Reflections 
on false eyes passed overhead. Charlie reached the end and turned to look back. She crouched down, 
looking up at the empty space. It didn’t feel empty. She could still feel 
the costumes; they were hanging all around her. There was someone else 
in the closet with her, kneeling down at her own height. It was her friend, 
the little boy. My little brother. They were both playing and hiding together as they always did. This 
time was different. The little boy looked up toward the door suddenly as 
though they had been caught doing something they shouldn’t have been 
doing. Charlie looked up as well. There was a figure in the door. It looked like one of the costumes was standing on its own, but it was 
motionless, so still that Charlie wasn’t sure what she was seeing. It was the rabbit, the yellowish-brown rabbit they loved, but it did not 
dance or sing, just stood there and stared at them, unblinking. They 
began to squirm under its gaze, and the little boy screwed up his face to 
wail. Charlie pinched his arm, seized with an instinctual sense that they 
must not cry. The rabbit looked back and forth from one to the other with 
those all-too-human eyes, ponderous, as though weighing and measuring 
them in some way that Charlie could not understand, like it was making 
a momentous decision. Charlie could see its eyes, its human eyes, and 
she was cold with terror. She felt the fear in her brother as well, felt it 
echoing between them, reverberating and growing because it was shared. 
They could not move, they could not scream, and finally the creature 
inside that patchwork, ragged yellow rabbit suit reached forward for the 
boy. There was a moment, one single moment, when the children still 
clung together, gripping hands, but the rabbit snatched the boy to his 
breast, yanking them apart, and fled. From that moment the entire memory shattered with piercing and 
unrelenting screams, not her brother’s, but her own. People rushed to 
help, her father picked her up and held her, but nothing could console 
her; she screamed and screamed, louder and louder. Charlie snapped 
back from her dream, the sound still high and painful in her ears. She 
was crouched down in silence. John stood at the door, not daring to 
interrupt. She did not remember much of what had happened next; everything 
was dark. It was all a blur of images and facts she had pieced together 
later, things she might remember and others she might have imagined. 
She was never in the restaurant again. She knew her parents shuttered the 
doors immediately. Then they moved to the new house, and Charlie’s mother left a little 
while after that. Charlie did not remember her saying good-bye, although 
she knew her mother must have. Her mother would not have left without 
a good-bye, but it was just lost in the mist of time and grief like so much 
else. She remembered the first time she stood in the doorway of her father’s workshop, the first day they were alone in everything. It was the 
day he began to build her a mechanical toy, a litde dog who tilted its 
head from side to side. She smiled when she saw it finished, and her 
father looked at her the way he would look at her for the rest of his life, 
as though he loved her more than life itself and as though his love made 
him unbearably sad. She knew even then that something vital inside him 
had broken, something that could never be repaired. Sometimes he 
seemed to look right through her, as if he couldn’t see her even when she 
was standing right in front of him. Her father never again spoke her brother’s name, and so Charlie 
learned not to speak it, either, as though to speak it would send them 
back to that time and unravel them both. She woke in the mornings and 
looked for the little boy, having forgotten in her dreams that he was 
gone. When she turned to where he would be and saw only her stuffed 
toys she would cry, but she would not say his name. She was afraid to 
even think it, and she trained her mind to shrink from it until she truly 
forgot, but deep inside she knew it: Sammy. A rumbling sound rose, loud and low like a train passing, and Charlie 
startled. “A train?” She looked around her, eyes wide; she was disoriented, 
not sure if she was in the past or present. “It’s okay. I don’t think it’s anywhere near here. Might just be a big 
truck.” John took Charlie’s arm and pulled her to her feet. “Did you 
remember something?” he whispered. He was trying to catch her gaze, 
but she was focused elsewhere. “A lot.” Charlie put her hand to her mouth, still staring into the 
darkness as if she could see the scene. John’s hand on her arm was an 
anchor, and she clung fast to it. This is real. This is now, she thought, and 
she turned to him, seized by a fierce gratitude that he was there with her. 
She buried her face in his chest as if his body could shield her from what 
she had seen, and she let herself cry. John hugged her tight, one hand on 
her head, cautiously stroking her hair. They stayed that way for long 
moments, and at last she calmed, her breathing deep and even again. 
John loosened his grip on her, and as soon as he did, Charlie stepped back, suddenly aware of how close they had been. John’s hands were still suspended in midair from where Charlie had 
been. After a moment of shock, he lowered one and used the other to 
scratch his head. “So ...” He hoped for an answer to fill the silence. “A rabbit,” Charlie said calmly, looking toward the doorway. “A 
yellow rabbit.” Her voice became graver as the image was still fresh in 
her mind. “The one I saw the night Michael disappeared, the bear, I’m pretty 
sure he was yellow, too.” “I thought you said it was like the others,” Charlie said. “I thought it was. When everybody said Freddy was brown, that night 
we first met up, I just thought I was remembering it wrong. I mean, I 
really don’t have a great memory for back then, you know? I didn’t even 
remember what color my old house was. But then you said he was 
yellow, too.” “Yeah, they were yellow.” She nodded; it was the answer he was 
expecting. “I think it’s connected—the animals from here, and the one I saw at 
Freddy’s.” And the one that took my brother, Charlie thought. She took a final 
look around the place. “Let’s go back,” she said. “I want to get out of here.” “Okay,” John said. As they headed to the door, a small object caught Charlie’s eye, and 
she snatched it up. It was a twisted piece of metal, and as John watched, 
close by, she stretched it out, then let it snap back together with a loud 
crack, like a whip. John jumped. “What is that?” he said, composing himself. “I’m not sure,” she said, but she slipped it into her pocket. John was 
watching her like there was something he wanted to say. “Let’s go,” 
Charlie said. They began the trek back to the car. Sammy, then years later Michael 
and the other kids—of course it’s connected, Charlie thought. Lightning might strike twice, but not murder. “Can you drive again?” she asked after a long period of silence. The 
only sounds so far had been their shoes crunching through the dry grass. “Yeah, of course,” he said. John managed to get the car turned around in the constricted space, 
and Charlie settled against the window, her eyes half-closed already. She 
watched the trees fly by outside her window and felt herself beginning to 
doze. The metal object in her pocket was digging into her leg, keeping 
her awake, and she repositioned it, thinking dreamily of the first time she 
saw one of the things. She was sitting with Sammy in the restaurant, before it opened for the 
day; they were under a window, in a dusty beam of light, playing some 
invented game she could no longer remember, and their father came 
over, grinning. He had something to show them. He held up the piece of twisted metal and showed them how it 
opened, then let it snap back in his hand. They both cried out in surprise, 
then started giggling and clapping their hands. Their father did it again. “I could snap off your nose!” he said, and 
again they laughed, but quickly his face turned serious. “I mean it,” he 
said. “This is a spring lock, and I want you to know how it works 
because it’s very dangerous, and I don’t ever want you touching these. 
This is why we never put our hands in the animal costumes; it’s very 
easy to trigger these if you don’t know what you’re doing, and you could 
get hurt. It’s like touching the stove—do we ever touch the stove?” They shook their heads with a solemnity beyond their years. “Good. Because I want you both to grow up with all your noses!” he 
cried, and he swept them up, one in each arm, swinging them around as 
they laughed. Suddenly there was a loud snap. Charlie jolted out of sleep. “What was that?” “What was what?” John said. The car was off. Charlie looked around; 
they were back at the motel. Charlie took a moment to reorient herself, then gave a reluctant 
smile. “Thanks for driving.” “What were you dreaming about?” John said. “You looked happy.” 
Charlie shook her head. “I don’t remember.” 
The other car was gone from the lot, and when they went into the room, 
there was a note on Charlie’s pillow, written in Marla’s big, loopy 
handwriting. We’re meeting for dinner at 6:30, and then going to you-know- 
where! she had written. See you two soon—don ’t forget about the rest of 
us! XOXO Marla She had drawn a smiley face and a heart below her name. Charlie 
smiled to herself, folding the note and slipping it into her pocket without 
showing it to John. “What does it say?” he asked. “We have to meet them at the diner in”—she checked her watch 
—“an hour.” John nodded. He was still standing in the doorway, waiting 
for something. “What?” Charlie said. “I need to go change,” he said, gesturing at the rumpled clothing he 
was wearing. “Can I take your car?” He held up the keys and jangled 
them. “Oh, yeah, of course. Just come back for me,” Charlie said with a 
grin. He smiled. “Of course,” he added with a wink. When the door closed behind him, Charlie let out a sigh. Alone at 
last. She was unaccustomed to so much company; she and Aunt Jen 
moved in their own orbits, meeting gladly from time to time throughout 
the day, but with the assumption that Charlie could take care of her own 
needs or would speak up if she could not. Charlie never spoke up. She 
could feed herself, get to school and back, and maintain her high grades 
and casual friendships. What could Aunt Jen do about nightmares? 
About questions she did not really want the answers to? What could 
Aunt Jen tell her that was not even more horrific than what she already 
knew? So she was not used to the sustained presence of other people, and 
it was a little tiring. She showered quickly and pulled on new clothes, jeans and a black 
T-shirt, then lay back on the bed, staring up at the ceiling. She had a 
vague sense that her mind should be racing with excitement or horror at 
their discoveries, going over and over the memories she had awakened, 
searching for something new. Instead, she just felt blank. She wanted to 
be alone, to push the memories to the back of her mind where they 
belonged. After what seemed like only a few short minutes, there was a knock 
on the door, and Charlie sat up, checking her watch. More time had 
passed than she realized; it was time to leave. She let John in. “I have to put on my shoes,” she said. She looked up at him as she 
knotted the laces. He had changed, this time into jeans and a T-shirt, a 
contrast with the formal clothes she had gotten used to. His hair was still 
wet, and there was something fresh and bright about him. She smiled a 
little. “What?” he said when he noticed. “Nothing,” she said. “You still look dirty,” she joked as she pushed 
past him. They got in the car. This time she drove, and when they 
reached the diner, Charlie turned off the engine and hesitated, not 
moving to leave the car. “John,” she said. “I don’t want to tell anyone about Fredbear’s.” “But—” He stopped himself. “Yeah,” he said. “I think we forget this 
is your life and not just some adventure. It’s fine; I can keep a secret.” “It’s all our lives,” she said. “We were all there. We can tell them 
later; I just want to sort some of it out for myself right now.” “You got it,” he said, and he looked a little pleased. Charlie knew 
why—it was a secret between them, something she entrusted only to 
him. When they went inside, everyone was already halfway through 
dinner. Charlie realized with a sharp pang that she had not eaten all day, 
and she found herself suddenly starving. The waitress spotted them as 
they sat down and came over immediately. They talked intermittently: 
Lamar, Jason, and Marla had gone to a movie, and Carlton and Jessica 
had played video games at his house. But their conversation was cursory, 
just filling the time as they ate. Charlie barely listened, and she had the 
feeling that even those who were talking were paying little attention to 
their own words. There was an agitated energy among the group; they 
were all just waiting, their minds already focused on Freddy’s. “What about you two?” Jessica asked, looking at Charlie and John. “Yeah, what about you two?” Marla echoed with a twinkle in her eye. “We just went for a drive,” John said quickly. “Got lost for a while.” “I bet you did,” Carlton muttered into his burger, grinning slyly even 
though his mouth was full. After dinner, the group hurried through the mall and toward the 
restaurant, hushed and cautious. As they passed through the atrium, their 
shoes made only soft sounds on the tiled floor, and no one spoke. Charlie 
had left the big flashlight in the car. They knew their way well enough by 
now, and the guard had almost seen them the night before; there was no 
reason to risk drawing extra attention. They came to the end of the hall, 
and Lamar, at the front of the group, stopped short. Charlie bumped into 
Marla before she realized what was happening, and she murmured an 
apology, then froze. The night guard was blocking the alley behind Freddy’s, his arms 
folded across his chest. He had no flashlight, and so he had been 
invisible, hidden in the darkness until they were almost upon him. “I had a feeling you wouldn’t leave it alone,” he said with an odd, 
uneven smile. Marla whispered something unpleasant under her breath. “I could have you arrested for trespassing,” he said. “Saw you here 
last night, but I couldn’t see where you got to. I guess now I know,” he 
added with a smirk. There was something almost immediately off-putting about the man. 
He was tall and slightly too thin for his uniform, which bagged at the 
shoulders and waist, as if he had once been a more robust man but had 
lost his form somehow to illness or tragedy; his name tag, reading dave, 
hung askew on his chest. His skin was sallow, and his eyes were 
undercut by heavy lines, adding to the impression of longstanding ill 
health. “What were you all doing back here anyway?” he demanded. “You 
kids partying? Drugs? I could have you arrested right now, you know.” 
Charlie and John glanced at each other. “We’re sorry,” Lamar said quickly. “We’ll go. We don’t have any 
drugs.” “Says who? Says you?” The guard wore an odd expression, and his 
words were harsh and fast; he seemed not to be responding to what they 
were saying. He looked angry, but his mouth kept quirking up at the 
corners, like he was trying not to smile. “What do we do?” Jessica whispered. “Probably the most action he’s ever had out here,” Carlton said with 
a hint of disdain, and Charlie remembered suddenly that Carlton’s father 
was a cop. She remembered him in his uniform, tilting down his dark 
sunglasses at them with a mock-glare, then smiling, revealing the joke. 
The guard, however, looked like he meant it. “We’ll go,” Lamar said again. “Sorry.” Charlie looked at the man, considering him: the ill-fitting uniform, 
his peaky, almost exhausted-looking features. He really could kick them 
off the property or even have them arrested for trespassing, but still, she 
could not really fear him. His inadequacy shone through him like a kind 
of negative charisma. He would always be shoved to the back of a crowd, always shouted down in an argument, always picked last, 
forgotten, ignored in favor of those who were simply more vital, more 
vigorously attached to life. Charlie frowned at herself. It was an unusual 
train of thought for her—she did not usually assume she could read the 
lives of strangers through the lines on their faces. But it gave her an idea. “Why don’t you come with us?” she said. “We just want to explore a 
little bit more, then we’ll leave. You know your way around better than 
any of us,” she added, hoping that some of the flattery would stick. “And then we’ll never come back again,” Carlton said. The guard did 
not immediately dismiss the idea, and the others quickly chimed in with 
their own assurances. The guard peered at them one by one, fixing his 
gaze on each in turn. When he looked at Charlie, she looked away, not 
wanting to meet his eyes, as if she would be giving something away if 
she let him look too deeply. Once he had inspected them to his 
satisfaction, he nodded. “Sure,” he said. “Only because I’ve always wanted to take a walk in 
there myself.” He jerked a thumb behind him, and, catching the surprise 
that must have shown on their faces, added, “I’m not an idiot. I’ve been 
working here for years, walked this building inside and out every night. 
You think I don’t know what’s back there?” Charlie felt herself flush; 
she had somehow assumed their discovery was unique. The guard looked 
down at his name tag suddenly, then pointed to it. “Name’s Dave,” he 
said. “I’m Jason,” Jason said, and, a little warily, the others recited their 
own names in turn. They stood there, looking at one another awkwardly 
for a moment, no one wanting to be the first to move, then Jessica 
shrugged. “Come on,” she said. She walked quickly to the scaffolding that hid 
the alley to Freddy’s and pulled back the plastic, revealing the break in 
the wall, and they all filed through, squeezing past the piled boxes. Dave 
hung back politely, letting them all go first. He motioned to Charlie to go 
ahead. I don’t want you behind me, Charlie thought. She looked at Jessica, 
who wasn’t moving, either. “Please, go ahead,” Charlie said with an edge in her voice, and Dave 
ducked his head shyly and went. Charlie followed him, and Jessica 
tucked the plastic carefully back where it was, concealing their passing 
even though there was no one left to catch them. As they made their way 
down the dank alley, Charlie touched her fingers to the brick wall, 
dragging her hand along it as if to guide her. The flashlights seemed a 
little dimmer now, though she knew it could only be her imagination. They led the guard to the heavy wooden shelf that hid the entrance, 
and Lamar, John, and Jessica dragged it out of the way, revealing the 
door. Charlie expected their new companion to be impressed, but he just 
nodded, as if he had suspected this all along. One by one, they entered the hall to the restaurant, and again Charlie 
lagged back from the group. She caught Carlton by the arm as he passed 
her. “Carlton,” she whispered. “Have you ever seen this guy?” Carlton shook his head. “It’s not that small a town; I don’t know 
everybody.” Charlie nodded absently, her eyes still on the newcomer as they made 
their way down the long hallway into Freddy’s main dining room. She 
had invited the guard because it seemed like the only way to get back in, 
but now she was beginning to regret it. Letting a stranger into Freddy’s 
was like letting him into her home, like giving something up. “What happened to the restaurant?” Lamar said, his tone carefully 
even, forcing a friendliness he could not have felt. “Why is it boarded 
up? And why is the mall abandoned anyway?” His voice sounded thin in 
the narrow hallway, a little muted. “You don’t know?” Dave said. “This town needs money, jobs, 
revenue, things like that, and one thing we’ve got a lot of is space. So 
they decided to build a big mall, try and attract businesses, maybe even 
tourists. They built up around where Freddy Fazbear’s was, but when it 
came to it, no one would lease the restaurant, you know, because of what 
happened. So someone had the bright idea of sealing the whole place up, 
intact; someone who had a sentimental attachment to it, perhaps. I don’t 
think they even tried to clear it out. But it wasn’t enough. Something about that place spilled over into the rest of the building, maybe right 
down into the soil. No one wanted to bring their business here. 
Sometimes business owners, franchisers from outside the town, would 
come and look at the place, but they never signed the papers. Said it just 
didn’t feel right. I think it’s got an aura, a mystical energy, maybe, if you 
believe in that sort of thing.” Dave wiggled his fingers in the air as 
though casting a spell. “I don’t believe in that sort of thing,” Lamar said shortly, but the 
guard did not seem to notice his tone. “To each his own,” he said. “All I know is, no one ever wanted their 
stores here, and they abandoned the construction before the building was 
even finished. Now nobody comes up here except kids wanting to screw 
around. And me,” he added with what sounded like pride. He must have 
felt possessive, Charlie thought, the only one who ever came here for 
years and years. It must have felt like it belonged to him, this strange, 
half-finished building. To him, they must be the invaders. They came to the end of the hallway, and the space opened up before 
them. Jessica ran ahead to the control room beneath the stage, her 
flashlight bobbing merrily ahead of her. She disappeared for a moment, 
then hit the light switch, and all at once the room was warm and bright. 
Charlie stopped, blinking in the sudden light. Dave brushed past her, and 
as he did something caught her eye: There was a scar on his neck, curved 
and ugly, almost a perfect half-moon. The tissue was knotted and white 
—the cut that made it must have been a deep one. Only a few feet away, 
Dave turned in a circle, taking in the restaurant, awed, and as he did, 
Charlie saw that the scar had a twin; the same half-moon, in the same 
place on the other side of his neck. She shivered a little. The marks were 
too clean, too perfectly placed; they almost looked deliberate. The group fanned out. Carlton, for some reason, headed toward the 
kitchen, and Jason wandered away toward the arcade again. “Be careful!” Marla called after him, but she was already following 
Lamar to the control room to join Jessica. Charlie hung back, and John 
stayed with her. There was something different in the air, Charlie 
thought. It felt thinner, like she had to breathe deeper to get enough oxygen. It’s just a guy, she told herself, but that was the problem. They 
had brought an outsider in with them, and now the restaurant felt less 
secure, no longer hidden away. Freddy’s had been breached. Freddy, 
Bonnie, and Chica had begun to jerk in their stiff, single movements. 
Charlie looked at Dave, but he did not appear surprised. He’s been here 
before, she thought. Then: Of course he’s been here before. The whole 
town used to come here back then. John motioned her on, and reluctantly she went with him to the 
control room, Dave tagging along behind them like a stray. In the booth, Jessica was hunched over, pressing buttons, and Lamar 
was studying the control board, trying to make sense of it. Dave peered 
intently over their shoulders, watching. He was nodding slightly to 
himself, wrapped up in some private calculation, and when Jessica 
stepped back and stretched, he cleared his throat. “Um,” he said. “Could I try?” He drew himself up a little, extending 
his arm graciously. Jessica and Lamar exchanged glances, then shrugged. “Why not?” Jessica said. They shuffled around so that he could reach 
the board, and he stared down at it for a long moment without moving, 
then touched a short series of buttons. A hum rose from the speakers, a 
long, low tone that did not waver. “Whoa,” Jessica said and pointed to the monitors. Charlie saw 
movement on the screen and backed out of the control room to look for 
herself. Onstage, the animals were dancing. Crudely, awkwardly, without 
the grace or complexity Charlie remembered, but they were moving in 
sequences, not just one motion at a time. Charlie went back to the control room but did not go beyond the 
door. “How did you do that?” she snapped, not caring if it was rude. Dave 
raised his hands in the air. “Beginner’s luck,” he said. “I just pressed some buttons.” “Right,” Charlie said. She rubbed her temples. “Can someone please 
turn off the speakers?” Lamar darted forward and flipped a switch, and the sound died. Despite the silence, Charlie felt as if she could still hear it, whining away 
inside her head. She closed her eyes for a moment, and when she opened 
them, Jessica and Lamar had gone back to working the controls, but there 
was a caution to their movements, and they glanced at each other every 
few seconds as if seeking reassurance. Charlie looked at John. His arms 
were folded across his chest, and his eyes were trained on the back of 
Dave’s head. 

In the arcade, Carlton pressed some random buttons on a game console, 
knowing nothing would happen, then turned around, finding himself the 
subject of an eleven-year-old’s resentful stare. “What?” he said. “I’m not a baby,” Jason said. “You don’t have to watch me.” “What? Jason, I’m not watching you. I’m just hanging out with you. 
I’m not Marla. Go stick your tongue in an electric socket, for all I care.” 
He waggled his eyebrows comically, and Jason laughed. “Okay, then, maybe I will,” he said. He scanned the baseboards for a 
socket, briefly considering calling Carlton’s bluff, but when he glanced 
back, Carlton had already wandered off. Jason bit his lip and rocked on 
his heels, feeling foolish. After a moment, he went back to the drawings 
on the wall. There were too many drawings to peruse each one in turn, 
but Jason suspected he would not need to. As they had the night before, 
the drawings would come to him. They wanted to be found. All Jason 
had to do was look. The drawings in the arcade gave up nothing: They were just 
children’s grubby art, faded with age. He went back out into the dining 
room, still hugging the walls and scanning them, hunting for something 
that was more than crayon. “What’re you up to, Jason?” Lamar was suddenly behind him. Jason 
turned around and studied him for a moment, considering. He liked 
Lamar, even if his friendliness could be traced easily to his interest in 
Marla. Lamar had bent down so his head was almost level with Jason’s, 
and Jason leaned toward him and whispered, “The drawings are moving.” Lamar drew back, and for a moment a look of real alarm crossed his 
face, but it was fleeting. Jason bit his lip, waiting, and Lamar grinned at 
him, then reached out to pat him on the head. “Okay, Jason. We’ll get you the help you need,” he said heartily, and 
Jason laughed and slapped Lamar’s hand away. “Shut up, seriously,” Jason said with a hint of sheepishness, and 
Lamar patted his head again and headed off. As soon as Lamar was a few 
feet away, Jason rolled his eyes. What do you think I am, your pet? He 
gave his hair a violent tussle as if he could shake loose whatever Lamar 
had done to him, then went back to the wall, concentrating. He had made his way all along one wall and was turning the corner 
when it happened: a flicker, just out of the corner of his eye, almost a 
shimmering. He stopped. Which one was it? He scanned the drawings 
again, going up and down the wall carefully, around the place he thought 
he had seen movement, but there was nothing. He started over, stopping 
to look at each crayon scribble, and then it happened again. He seized on 
it this time, his eye finding the drawing just as the shimmer of movement 
stopped, and just as he did, he saw another, so brief he would have 
ignored it, just a trick of the light, had he not been watching for it. It was 
above the first and maybe two feet to the left; his eyes darted back and 
forth, trying to see both at once. Suddenly, there was a third movement in 
a drawing between the two, this one more noticeable. This time he 
almost, almost saw the drawing shift before it was still again. Sitting 
back on his heels, Jason looked at the three drawings, each in turn. The 
crayon was black, and they all looked like they had been drawn by the 
same kid, all with two figures in the foreground: a child and a rabbit. Jason glanced around the room. His sister and the others still seemed 
to be engaged by the stage; Lamar had gone back to join them. Jason 
pulled the drawing he had found the night before from his pocket. He 
smoothed it out, pressing it to the surface of the floor, then, slowly, he 
peeled its linty tape out flat and stuck the paper to the wall just at his eye 
level. He stared at the wall, waiting. Nothing happened. Jason frowned. He had been so certain these would tell him 
something, but they were just drawings. The child and the bunny stood in 
the middle of the paper, in one close together, in another far apart. But 
there was nothing there that could be called a story. Oh well. He started 
to look over at the others again—and the highest one began to move. This time he saw the shift: The crayon lines twisted and slid on the 
page, moving of their own accord, too fast to follow. When the first 
stopped moving, another started, they continued one after the other until 
the last, the one he had just put back, was finished. Jason watched, eyes 
wide, his heart pounding, but by the time he realized what was 
happening, it was over. The figures were fixed in place, and now they did 
tell a story. In the first, a child was sitting alone. In the second, Bonnie 
appeared behind the child. In the next, Bonnie had snatched the child, 
lifting it off the ground. In the last, the child was screaming. His eyes wide and his heart racing, Jason stepped back. He was 
transfixed: His body suddenly felt leaden, too heavy to run. A sound 
arose, like wind rustling the pages on the wall, though they hung 
motionless before him. The sound rushed and grew, louder and louder 
until wind gave way to screaming. Jason clapped his hands over his ears 
as pages began to drop from the walls, landing with loud crashes, as if 
they were made of something far heavier than paper. As he watched, the 
fallen pages turned a dark red, soaking through with color as they 
touched the floor. Jason turned to run, but his path was blocked as pages 
tumbled from the ceiling in a torrent. One landed on his shoulder, 
another on his back and then another, and they clung to him, wrapping 
around him as if they would suffocate him. Jason felt his legs buckle 
under the weight, dropping at last to one knee. As he braced himself under the storm of paper, the room began to 
shake violently. Jason gritted his teeth, trapped—and suddenly it was 
over. The red-soaked papers were gone, there was nothing on his back, 
and Marla had him by the shoulder and was staring at him, wide-eyed. “Jason, what on earth is wrong with you?” Jason scrambled to his feet, brushing himself off as if he were covered with invisible insects. “The pictures were falling on me,” he said urgently, still panicked, 
but as he looked back at the wall, he realized that the room was silent and 
still. A single picture had fallen from its place. Marla looked down at it, 
then back to her brother, and shook her head. She leaned close and hissed 
into his ear, “You embarrass me.” She let loose her grip after a moment, 
her face almost blank, and walked away. Jason stumbled as he got to his 
feet but followed as quickly as he could, keeping his eyes trained on the 
walls as they went. In the control room, Dave had his hands on the buttons, his fingers 
wandering lightly over them without pressing anything. The movement 
looked careless, instinctual, like a habit. Charlie leaned close to John. “He’s been here before,” she whispered. “Look at the way he touches 
the controls.” “Maybe he’s just good with computers,” John offered, not sounding 
convinced. “Can you make them dance again?” Jessica asked. Dave barely 
seemed to acknowledge the question. His mouth hung slightly open, and 
he seemed to be staring at something none of them could see. In the 
bright lights, they could all see that his uniform was grubby and tom in 
places, his face poorly shaven and his eyes a little unfocused. He looked 
less like a guard than a vagrant, and he looked at them all as if he had 
wandered in ages ago and they were the newcomers. It took him a 
moment to register the question. “Sure, let’s see what we can do,” he said. He smiled at her, his mouth 
askew. His eyes were a little too intent on her face, holding her gaze just 
a little too long. Jessica swallowed, seized with an instinctive revulsion, 
but she smiled back politely. “All right,” Dave said. “I’ve been here a few times before; I think I 
can work some magic.” Charlie and John exchanged glances. “You’ve been here before?” John said in a careful, even tone, but 
Dave ignored him, or did not hear. There was a keypad to the far left of the control board that no one had touched yet, as it did not appear to be connected to anything. Now Dave 
reached for it and began to press the buttons quickly, as if he had done it 
a hundred times before. He gave Jessica a conspiratorial glance. “For 
special occasions, you can request a dance.” He smiled at her again with 
that crooked intensity. “Great,” Jessica said, breathing a sigh of relief. Anything to get out of 
such forced proximity to this man. She looked at Lamar. “I’m going to 
go look. Will you take over?” “Yeah, sure,” he said, scooting forward to fill the vacancy as Jessica 
and Dave made their way out to the show area. Onstage, the lights were flashing in patterns, accompanying music 
that no longer played, and Bonnie’s mouth was moving as though in 
song. His eyelids closed for long blinks, then opened again with loud 
clicks, his glass eyes moving from side to side. One large blue hand rose 
and fell, strumming exaggeratedly on the red guitar whose strings had 
long since gone missing. “Lamar, how much of this are you doing?” Carlton said, suitably 
impressed. “Not much!” Lamar called back. “Most of it seems preprogrammed.” Bonnie turned to them, and Jessica startled as he seemed to look right 
at her. But he turned away just as quickly to face the rows of empty 
seats, lifting his head to sing. “It’s strange seeing them like this,” Jessica said, taking a step back to 
get a better view. Bonnie’s foot tapped along in rhythm, and his mouth 
opened and closed with song. There was no voice; there was no music. 
There was only a strange humming coming from the speakers and an 
orchestra of mechanical snaps and squeaks. Bonnie sped up, strumming 
and tapping faster. His eyes suddenly seemed out of sync, looking left 
while the head went right, then rolling back into his head. Dave approached the stage with deliberate steps. “Nervous little fella, 
aren’t you?” He smiled, seemingly unbothered as the rabbit moved faster 
and faster. “Hey, Lamar, can you take it down a notch?” Jessica called. Bonnie’s arms began convulsing violently, his mouth open but stuttering, his eyes throwing their gaze in seemingly random directions. “Lamar! Something’s wrong!” Jessica cried. Bonnie’s foot jerked upward with a sound like a gunshot, yanking 
free the bolt that anchored him to the stage. “Lamar!” Carlton climbed onto the stage and hurried to Bonnie, 
trying to search the rabbit for an off button as he ducked its erratic 
swings. “Carlton, get down, you idiot!” Jessica ran to the stage. Bonnie was moving too fast, out of control as if his program had hit a 
glitch. He was no longer following the dance sequence they all 
remembered so well. He began to convulse and thrash. Carlton 
scrambled back, trying to get away, but Bonnie’s arm broke away from 
the guitar, swinging out and hitting Carlton across the chest, knocking 
him off the stage. He landed on his back and stayed down, gasping for 
breath. “Lamar!” Jessica shouted. “Lamar, turn it off!” “I don’t know how!” he yelled back. Jessica knelt down beside Carlton, looking helplessly at him. She 
tapped his shoulder insistently. “Carlton, are you okay? Carlton? Look at me!” Carlton gave a small laugh that sounded more like a cough, then 
grabbed her hand and pulled himself up to sit. “It’s okay,” he said. “Just got the wind knocked out of me.” Jessica 
still looked worried. “I just need a minute,” he assured her, the words 
still coming in little wheezes. In the control room, Lamar pressed button after button frantically, but 
on the screens he could still see Bonnie moving wildly and at random, 
not responding to anything he did. Charlie rushed in, pushing him out of 
the way, but it took her only seconds to see that the buttons were 
powerless. She locked eyes with Lamar for a moment. We aren’t in 
control, she thought. As one, they rushed from the control room to help 
the others. Jessica screamed, a short, high-pitched sound, and Marla and John 
ran to her, Charlie and Lamar arriving seconds later. All the animals were moving now in that same fitful way, cycling through their 
programmed movements at random with a desperate, panicked air. The 
lights began to pulse, flickering rapidly on and off. The stage lights did 
the same, the colors appearing and disappearing so that the whole space 
was washed first in bright gold, then a sickly green, then a bruised and 
vicious purple. They blinked like strobes, and the effect was nauseating. 
The speakers blared brief bursts of static, cutting in and out like the 
lights, and beneath the static was the same sound they had heard the 
night before, the growling of a voice too low to be human, too indistinct 
to be speaking words. The group came together cautiously, not quite trusting their own 
senses. The lights throbbed savagely, and as Charlie walked toward her 
friends, she could not be sure how far away they were or what was right 
in front of her. They huddled in the middle of the floor, staring at the 
animals as they rattled and rocked as if with their own agenda. Carlton 
got to his feet; Jessica watched him with concern, but he waved her off. “I told you, I’m fine,” he said, shouting to be heard over the 
intermittent noise. Charlie stood fixed in place, unable to take her eyes off the animals. 
They’re trying to get away, she thought. It was a child’s thought, and she 
tried to dismiss it, but it clung as she watched them, scarcely noticing the 
fitful flickering of the lights and sound. The animatronic creatures didn’t 
look like they were glitching; their movement seemed not mechanical but 
hysterical, like there was something they needed desperately to do but, 
horribly, could not. “Where’s Dave?” John said suddenly. Charlie met his eyes with a 
rising dread. Oh no. They all looked around, but the guard was nowhere 
in sight. “We have to find him,” Charlie said. “He probably left already; who cares?” Marla said, her voice high 
and frightened. “I’m not worried about him,” she said grimly. She turned to John. 
“Come on,” she said, setting off toward the hallway to the right of the 
stage. He glanced at the rest of the group over his shoulder, then followed Charlie at a brisk pace. “We should find the other control room and see if we can stop all this 
from there,” Jessica said crisply, taking charge. “You and Jason go look 
for Dave,” she told Marla. “I’ll go with them,” Lamar said quickly. “Control room?” Carlton said, looking at Jessica. “Control room,” she confirmed. They all set off, moving slowly. The 
strobing lights distorted the space in front of them, seeming to throw up 
obstacles that were not there, obscuring the ones that were. The effect 
was disorienting, a constantly shifting maze of light and noise. “Ow!” Marla shouted, and everyone stopped short. “Are you okay?” Carlton yelled. “Yeah, I just bumped into this stupid merry-go-round,” she called 
back. The speakers were momentarily noiseless, but they shouted across 
the small distance as if there were a canyon between them. 
In another hallway, Dave was moving toward a goal. Without the others 
there to watch, he moved fast, scuttling almost sideways and darting his 
eyes back over his hunched shoulders from time to time to see he was not 
followed. There was a large key ring at the belt of his uniform, but only a 
few keys hung from it. He selected one, opened a door, and let himself 
into the restaurant’s office. He closed the door quickly behind him, 
cushioning it against noise even though the group would never hear it 
this far away or note it between their own shouts and the blaring of the 
speakers. He turned on the overhead light; it was steady, illuminating the 
room without a flicker. On the far wall, there was a tall closet flat against 
the wall, and he used another key on his ring to open it. Dave stood still 
in the open door for a long moment, breathing deeply. As he did, his 
back straightened and his hollow chest seemed to expand, drawing an 
uncharacteristic confidence from what he saw. An odd, thin smile on his 
lips, Dave reached out with his fingertips, savoring the moment, and 
brushed yellow fur. 
Jessica and Carlton hurried away down the hall toward the second 
control room, but Marla and the two boys moved more slowly, sticking 
their heads into the party rooms, then the arcade. The rooms appeared 
empty, but in the constantly changing light, Jason thought as they moved 
on, it would be easy to miss just about anything. Having checked the 
area, Marla and Lamar headed back into the main room. “Where are Jessica and Carlton?” Lamar shouted over another burst 
of garbled sound. Jason stopped and looked back, and in a fleeting 
instant he saw it: a rabbit, outlined in the hall for a split second as the 
lights flashed on him, then vanishing and appearing again in his place in 
the party room they had just left. “Marla!” Jason shouted. “MARLA!” His voice was shrill, agitated. She whirled around. “What? Are you okay?” “I saw Bonnie! He was there!” “What?” Marla’s eyes went automatically to the stage. Bonnie was 
still there, moving back and forth in the same odd, spastic movements. 
“Jason, look, he’s there. He can’t move off the stage.” Jason looked. Bonnie was there. I saw him, he thought, looking back 
down the hallway, but it was empty. Jessica came running up, out of breath. “Is everyone okay? I heard screaming.” “We’re fine,” Lamar said. “Jason thought he saw something.” “Where’s Carlton?” Marla said. She rubbed her temples. “Ugh, this 
light is giving me such a headache.” “He’s still fighting with the controls,” Jessica said. “We should find 
Charlie and John; I think we need to get out of here.” “I think they went that way,” Lamar said, pointing to the hall at the 
far end of the room, just past the stage. “Come on,” Jessica said. Jason followed as the group crossed the 
main dining room again, maneuvering cautiously around tables and 
chairs. He looked back as they reached the hall. Suddenly, Bonnie 
appeared again, darting out from the arcade and ducking into the hall that 
led to Pirate’s Cove. Jason watched his sister and the others file through the doorway, then slipped away before they could see him go. He ran 
across the room, intent on following the rabbit, then slowed his pace 
when he reached the dark hallway. The lights in the little hall were completely out, and though he could 
see nothing, it was a minor relief from the pulsing strobes. Jason hugged 
the wall as he moved, trying to scan ahead of him for signs of movement, 
but it was too dark; his eyes had not adjusted. After what seemed like 
ages, he came out of the hall and into Pirate’s Cove. From a distance, he 
could hear his sister’s voice, calling his name. Guess they noticed I’m 
gone, he thought wryly. He ignored it. Crossing the room, he peered 
down the other hallway—the one that led to more party rooms—but it 
was so dark that he could scarcely see more than a few feet ahead. Turning back, he approached the little stage, the OUT OF order sign 
still strung across it. As if anything in this place is in order. Suddenly, the 
curtain moved, and Jason froze. The curtain began pulling back. Jason 
couldn’t bring himself to run. All went dark, then the lights came on 
suddenly to reveal Carlton standing in front of him, having emerged from 
behind the curtain. “What are you doing back here by yourself? Come on, let’s go,” 
Carlton greeted him with a warm smile. Awash with relief, Jason took a step forward, opening his mouth to 
speak—and stiffened, struck still with fear. Bonnie suddenly broke through the darkness, appearing beneath the 
stage lights before them. But it was not Bonnie; this rabbit’s yellow fur 
was almost blinding in the light. He rushed at them, and before Jason 
could cry out, the giant rabbit had a hold of Carlton from behind, 
smothering his face with a giant, matted paw and wrapping his other 
great arm around Carlton’s chest, gripping tightly. Carlton struggled 
silently, hitting and kicking, but the creature barely seemed to notice. He 
screamed into the rabbit’s paw, but the sound was swallowed whole. As 
he fought, the rabbit slunk back the way he came, dragging Carlton with 
him like a prize from the hunt. Jason watched them go, agape. His heart raced, and his breath was 
shallow; the stifling air around him made him light-headed. A noise came from behind him, the grinding screech of rusted metal beginning to 
move, and he leaped forward and turned, moving just in time to avoid a 
hook as it plunged swiftly downward. Foxy’s eyes flashed in synchrony 
with the lights above, and for a dizzy moment it seemed to Jason that 
those eyes were the controlling force behind it all, that if Foxy closed his 
eyes, every light might go out. The animal did not move like the others. 
It slowly, purposefully, rose between the gap in the curtains, its gleaming 
eyes reaching a staggering height. “Jason!” It was Charlie’s voice, he knew, but he kept staring back 
and forth, first at Foxy, then at the place where Carlton had been stolen 
away. “Jason!” she called again, and then she and John were beside him, 
touching him, shaking him out of his ghastly reverie. John grabbed his 
hand and pulled him into a run. In the main room, the others were 
already halfway down the hallway to the outside door, all but Marla, who 
was waiting anxiously at the entrance, her face flooding with relief when 
she saw Jason. “Marla, Bonnie, he took Carlton!” Jason yelled, but she just put a 
hand on his back and pushed him through the door and into the hall. “Go, Jason!” “But I saw Bonnie take Carlton!” he cried, but he ran, afraid to stop. They ran down the hall to the outside door, all bouncing with a 
frightened impatience as they filed through to the alley one by one; there 
was no way to go faster. When they were all through, Charlie looked 
down the hallway for a long moment, but there was no one coming. She 
shoved the door closed and stepped out of the way as Lamar and John 
wrestled the shelf back into place, blocking it off. “No one saw Dave,” Charlie said. It was not a question. They all 
shook their heads. “He must have taken off when the lights started going 
haywire,” Lamar offered, but he did not sound convinced. “Carlton!” Jason cried out again. “Carlton is still in there! Bonnie 
took him!” They all glanced around. Carlton was not with them. “Oh no,” Jessica said. “He’s still inside.” “Bonnie took him!” Jason said, choking out the words one by one, his voice shaking. “I saw it. Bonnie was there, he was in Pirate’s Cove, and 
he grabbed Carlton and carried him away. I couldn’t stop him.” He 
scrubbed a sleeve across his eyes, wiping tears. “Oh, sweetheart ...” Marla hugged him, and he clung to her, hiding 
his face in her shirt. “No, it was a trick of the light. Bonnie couldn’t do 
that; he’s just a robot. He was onstage when we left.” Jason closed his eyes. He had only glanced for a second at the main 
stage as they were leaving, but it was true: Bonnie had been there, 
moving in strange and clumsy twists and bends, stuck in place. He pulled 
away from his sister’s arms. “I saw it,” he insisted, more weakly. “Bonnie took him.” The others exchanged glances above his head. Charlie looked at 
Marla, who shrugged. “We have to go back in,” Charlie said. “We have to get him.” Jessica 
was nodding, but John cleared his throat. “I think we need help,” he said. “It’s not safe in there.” “Let’s get Carlton’s dad,” Marla said. “I’m not taking Jason back in 
there.” Charlie wanted to protest, but she bit her tongue. They were right; of 
course they were right. Whatever had just happened was beyond them. 
They needed help. 
They made their way back through the corridors of the abandoned mall, 
not bothering to be cautious with their footsteps or the beams of their 
lights. “So much for being sneaky,” Charlie said darkly, but no one 
responded. By silent consensus their pace quickened steadily; by the time 
they reached the parking lot they were almost running. Spotting her car 
as they came out the front door, Charlie felt an almost physical relief to 
see it, like it was an old friend. “Someone should stay here,” she said, pausing with her hand on the 
door handle. “We can’t leave Carlton.” “No,” Marla said firmly. “We’re leaving now.” They looked at her in 
surprise for a moment—suddenly, she was talking to them all the way 
she talked to Jason: Sister knows best. Lamar and Jason exchanged 
glances, but no one said anything. “We’re going into town. All of us,” 
she added, giving Charlie a warning look, “and we’re finding help.” They hurried into their cars. As Charlie took the wheel, John got into 
the passenger seat, and she smiled tightly at him. Jessica climbed into the back a moment later, and Charlie felt a minor disappointment; she had 
wanted to talk to him alone. We’re running for help, it’s not a date, she 
scolded herself, but that hadn’t really been the point. He felt safe, a 
touchstone amid the strange things that were happening ah around them. 
She looked over at him, but he was staring out the window. They pulled 
out of the lot, following Marla’s car as she sped into the darkness. 
When they reached the town, Marla yanked her car to the side of the 
main street and stopped, and Charlie followed suit. Before the car had 
fully come to a halt, Jessica leaped out of the backseat and started 
running. Marla followed a step behind. They stopped in front of the 
movie theater, and only then did Charlie see that there was a cop in 
uniform beneath the marquee, leaning back against his black-and-white 
car. His eyes widened at the sight of the young women barreling toward 
him, and he took an involuntary step back as Marla started talking 
without pausing for breath. “... Please, you’ve got to come,” Marla was finishing as the others 
caught up. The cop looked a little bewildered. He had a shiny pink face, and his 
hair was so short it was entirely covered by his hat. He was young, 
maybe midtwenties, Charlie realized, and he was looking at them 
skeptically. “Is this an actual emergency?” he said. “You may not realize it, but 
pranks can get you into real trouble.” Jessica rolled her eyes and stepped forward, closing the distance 
between them. “We’re not playing a prank,” she said crisply, and Charlie suddenly 
remembered how tall she was. “Our friend is trapped in that abandoned 
shopping mall, and it’s your job to help us.” “The shopping mall?” He seemed confused, then looked in the 
direction they’d come from. “THAT shopping mall?” His eyes widened, 
then he frowned at them reproachfully, looking remarkably like a 
disappointed parent despite his youth. “What were you doing up there in the first place?” Charlie and Marla exchanged glances, but Jessica didn’t blink. “Deal with us later. He’s in danger, and you have to help us, Officer 
—” She leaned in and peered at his name tag. “Officer Dunn. Do you 
want me to go to the fire department?” Despite her fear, Charlie almost laughed. Jessica said it as if she were 
in a store, threatening to take her business elsewhere. It was so absurd it 
should have gotten her no more than a puzzled glance, but Dunn reached 
for his radio hastily. “No,” he said. “Hang on.” He pressed a button, and the radio emitted a short burst of static. 
Charlie felt a brief chill at the sound, and as she looked around, she saw 
John stiffen and Jason take a tiny step closer to Marla. Not seeming to 
notice their reactions, Dunn barked incomprehensible sounds into his 
radio, talking in cop code, and Charlie suddenly had a flash of memory, 
of running around the yard, whispering into walkie-talkies with Marla. 
They could never understand each other on the cheap toys her father had 
found in the drugstore bargains bin, but they didn’t mind; actual 
communication was never the point. “Charlie, come on!” Jessica shouted at her, and Charlie came back to 
herself. Everyone was heading toward the cars and piling back in. Marla 
pulled out in front, and the cop followed her, with Charlie bringing up 
the rear. “Why doesn’t he have the siren on?” Jessica said. Her voice was thin 
and brittle, as if her only choices were a sharp tongue or tears. “He doesn’t believe us,” John said softly. “He should have the siren on,” Jessica said, and this time it was 
almost a whisper. Charlie’s knuckles were white on the steering wheel as 
she stared straight ahead at the cop’s red taillights. When they got back to the mall, Jessica dashed ahead, forcing the rest 
of them to run behind her. Charlie didn’t mind; it felt good to run, 
purposeful. Lamar was talking to the cop as they ran, shouting over the 
noise of their thudding feet. “The restaurant is all boarded up, but there’s a door left open,” he said, the words broken by his uneven breathing. “Behind the plastic— 
you move it—dark alley—Carlton smells like feet.” Officer Dunn’s step 
stuttered briefly, but he regained his stride. When they reached the alley, 
they slowed their pace, moving more cautiously down the narrow hall 
until they came to the door. “Right here,” John said, and Dunn moved forward to help with the 
shelf. They drew it back too fast, the contents rattling and wobbling. The 
shelf pitched backward, and tools, cables, and paint cans full of nails 
crashed to the floor. “Ow!” John yelled as a hammer bounced off his foot. They all 
watched as the things scattered, some rolling away and vanishing down 
the dark corridor. “What?!” Jason wailed, and they all looked up from the spill. He was 
pointing at the door. “What is this?” Marla gasped. The door had chains strung across it 
from top to bottom, three enormous padlocks holding them all together. 
The links were bolted into the metal frame of the door, and they were 
heavy, too heavy to cut without special tools. It was all rusty; the whole 
thing looked as though it had been there for years. Charlie walked up to 
the door and touched a chain, as if to be sure it was real. “This wasn’t here,” she said, the words sounding inane even as she 
spoke. “We have to get him out!” Jason cried haltingly, his hands covering 
his eyes. “Bonnie is going to kill him, and it’s my fault!” “What’s he talking about?” the police officer said, looking at them 
with renewed suspicion. “Who is Bonnie, and why is she going to hurt 
your friend?” “He’s—it’s a robot,” Charlie said quickly. “The robots from Freddy 
Fazbear’s are still there, and they still work.” “Freddy Fazbear’s.” Dunn’s face flushed, and he looked at the door 
again. “I used to go there as a kid,” he said softly, his tone caught 
between nostalgia and fear. He caught himself quickly and cleared his 
throat. “He came to life,” Jason insisted, no longer making the effort to hide his tears. Dunn bent down to his height, his tone softening. “What’s your name?” he asked. “We have to get him out,” Jason repeated. “His name is Jason,” Marla said, and Jason glared at her. “Jason,” Dunn said. He put a hand on Jason’s shoulder, glancing at 
the others with an obvious suspicion. He thinks we made him say that, 
Charlie realized. Jason wriggled in Dunn’s grasp, but the officer did not 
let him go, looking him in the eye to ask the next question: “Jason, did 
they tell you to say this? What’s going on here?” Irritated, Jason pulled free and took a large step back. “That’s what really happened,” he said firmly. Officer Dunn exhaled, a long, slow vent of frustration, then got to his 
feet, shedding his kid-friendly act. “So, the robots took your friend,” he 
said. I know what you’re trying to pull, said his tone. “We were in there,” Charlie stated flatly, keeping her voice level, as 
if saying it calmly and plainly enough might convince him that they were 
not telling lies. “Our friend didn’t make it out.” The officer looked again at the chains. “Look,” he said, apparently deciding to give them the benefit of the 
doubt. “I don’t know how you got in there in the first place, and right 
now I don’t want to know. But the machinery in there is old; it hasn’t 
been touched in ten years. Chances are it’s pretty spooky. Heck, I 
wouldn’t want to go in there. So even though I can’t blame you for being 
freaked out, I can guarantee you those robots in there aren’t moving by 
themselves. That place is dead, and it needs to be left alone,” he said 
with a forced chuckle. Jason set his jaw, but he didn’t say anything. “I 
think you all need to go home,” Dunn finished, the statement sounding 
more like a threat than advice. They looked at one another. After a moment of uncomfortable silence, Jessica looked to Charlie. 
“These chains weren’t here before. Right?” she faltered, looking back at 
her friends for confirmation like she was beginning to doubt her own 
memory. “No,” Charlie said instantly. “They weren’t. We aren’t leaving, and we need your help.” “Fine,” Dunn said shortly. “What’s his name?” He produced a 
notebook seemingly from nowhere. “Carlton Burke,” Jessica said. She was about to spell it for him, when 
suddenly Officer Dunn put down his pen and closed his eyes, his nostrils 
flaring. He glared at them, no longer looking quite so young. “I’m going to 
give you one more chance. Tell me exactly what happened.” He spoke 
slowly, emphasizing the spaces between his words. He was in control 
again, no longer out of his depth, like he suddenly understood 
everything. They tried to explain all at once, talking over one another. Jessica’s 
voice was loudest and calmest, but even she could not keep her anxiety 
from bleeding through. Charlie hung back, quiet. Tell me exactly what 
happened. Where were they supposed to start? With the night? With the 
week? With Michael? With the first time her father picked up a circuit 
board? How was anyone ever to respond to something like “tell me what 
happened”? The cop was nodding, and he picked up the radio again, but 
this time he spoke comprehensibly. “Norah, call Burke. It’s his kid. I’m up at the old mall site.” There 
was an answering burst of static, and the officer turned his attention back 
to them. “Come on,” he said. “Come on where?” John said. “Off the property.” Marla started to protest, but Dunn interrupted. “I’m escorting you off 
the property,” he said. He pulled the baton from his belt and pointed with 
it. “Come on,” Lamar said. Jason was still staring sullenly at the ground, 
and Lamar gave him a gentle nudge on the shoulder. “Jason, come on. 
We have to do what he says now, okay?” “But Carlton!” Jason said loudly, and Lamar shook his head. “I know. It’s okay, we’ll find him, but we have to go now.” He 
guided Jason toward the mouth of the alley, and everyone followed. The 
police officer walked behind, following Charlie a little too closely. She sped up, but so did he, and she resigned herself to being shadowed. When they got to the parking lot, he directed them to wait by the car 
and walked off a few paces, speaking into the radio again, too far away 
to hear. “What’s going on?” Jason said. He was beginning to whine; he heard 
the tone in his voice and tried to modulate it. I am not a little kid, he 
reminded himself. No one answered, but Marla rubbed his back absently, 
and he did not move away. Long minutes passed in silence. Jessica sat on the hood of the car, 
facing away from the rest of the group. Charlie wanted to go to her, but 
she did not. In her distress, Jessica was closing down, going stiff and 
cold and snippy, and Charlie did not think she had what it took to break 
through that without breaking down herself. “Was he talking about Carlton’s dad?” Charlie asked, but no one had 
time to answer. Headlights appeared, and a car pulled in beside them. 
The man who got out was tall and thin, and his light hair could have been 
either blond or gray. “Carlton’s dad,” Marla whispered, a late answer to Charlie’s 
question. The man smiled as he approached. “Carlton’s dad,” he confirmed. “Though since you’re all grown up 
now, you’d better call me Clay.” They all muttered it, half in greeting, 
half just to test it out. Jason covered his mouth self-consciously, tonguing 
the invisible gap in his molars. “I thought our days of mischief would be behind us, no?” Clay said, 
his expression good-humored. Jessica slid off the hood of Charlie’s car, her face drawn. “I’m so sorry; he’s missing,” she said tightly. “I don’t know what 
happened; he was right with us!” “Bonnie kidnapped him!” Jason burst out. “I saw! The rabbit took 
him!” Clay started to smile, then stopped himself when he saw their faces. “Oh, kids, I’m sorry. You haven’t been around in a while. I’m afraid 
Carlton is playing a joke on you, ALL of you.” “What?” Lamar said. “Oh, come on. With you guys back in town, he couldn’t resist,” Clay 
said. “Whatever happened, I guarantee he set it up. He’ll probably pop 
out of the bushes any minute now.” There was a silence as they all waited against probability. Nothing 
happened. “Well,” Clay said at last. “That would have been too much to ask! 
Come on, why don’t you come back to our place? I’ll make you all some 
hot chocolate, and when Carlton finally shows up, you can tell him he’s 
grounded!” “Okay,” Charlie said, without waiting for the consent of the others. 
She wanted to believe Clay, wanted to believe that Carlton was all right 
and would show up laughing. But, almost as badly, she wanted to go 
somewhere where an adult was in charge, someone who would make hot 
chocolate and assure them there was no such thing as monsters. Her 
father had never made that claim. Her father could never have told her 
that lie. No one objected, and so they started up their caravan again, trailing 
Clay home. They all settled into their accustomed places: Charlie, John, 
and Jessica in Charlie’s car, and Marla, Jason, and Lamar in Marla’s. In 
the rearview mirror, Charlie saw Officer Dunn’s car, still right behind 
them. Is he just going this way, or is he making sure we go where we’re 
told? she wondered, but it didn’t really matter. They weren’t planning on 
flight. At Carlton’s house they filed in through the front door. Charlie 
looked back in time to see the police car drive on by. He was following 
us. As they climbed the steps, John leaned in to whisper in her ear. “I didn’t realize how rich they were when I was a kid!” he said, and 
she stifled a laugh. It was true; the house was enormous. It was three 
stories high, and it sprawled out into the woods that surrounded it, so 
wide that Charlie thought there must have been whole rooms where all 
you could see out the window was trees. Clay showed them to the living 
room, which looked well used, the furniture mismatched and the rugs, 
dark and durable, made to take stains. “Carlton’s mom—who you can call Betty now—is asleep,” Clay said. “The soundproofing is pretty good. Just don’t shout or crash 
around.” They chorused promises, and he nodded, satisfied, and vanished 
through a doorway. They dispersed themselves over the furniture, sitting 
on couches and chairs. Charlie sat on the rug between Jessica’s chair and 
Lamar’s. She wanted them all to stay close together. John sat down 
beside her and gave a little smile. “Did we get pranked?” Marla asked. “I guess maybe. I’m not sure what else would explain it,” Jessica said 
listlessly, staring into the empty fireplace. “I mean, none of us even 
knows each other that well, not really. Maybe he would do something 
like that.” They all shifted uncomfortably. It was true; they had been 
behaving as if their time apart were just a little break, like they could just 
fill one another in on what they had been up to, and it would be just like 
it was, just like their group had never split up. But ten years was too long 
for that to be true, and deep down everyone knew it. Charlie darted her 
eyes at John. She felt a little embarrassed, but she could not have 
expressed why. Clay came back in, carrying a tray of steaming mugs and a bag of 
little marshmallows. “Here you are!” he said jovially. “Hot chocolate for everyone, even 
me.” He set the tray down on the coffee table and took a seat in a 
battered green armchair that seemed to fit him like a coat, as accustomed 
to his body as he was to its form. They reached forward and took the 
cups; only Jason reached for the marshmallows. Clay looked around 
from face to face. “Look,” he said. “I know you don’t believe me, but Carlton does 
things like this—although I have to admit, this is probably the weirdest. 
It’s not right, making you relive all that stuff from when you were kids.” 
He stared into his mug for a long moment. “I need to have another talk 
with him,” he said quietly. “Believe me, my son has a strange sense of 
humor,” he went on. “You know, for high school we sent him to a place 
in the next town over. No one knew him. He managed to convince his 
classmates and his teachers that he had a twin brother at the school for the first month of class. I don’t know how on earth he managed it, but I 
didn’t find out until he got tired of the act and I started getting calls from 
school that one of my sons had gone missing.” Charlie smiled weakly, but she was not convinced. This was 
different. “This is different,” Marla said, as if reading Charlie’s thoughts. 
“Jason saw him disappear. He was terrified. It’s cruel, if it’s a prank.” 
Marla shook her head with anger and scratched her nails against the 
porcelain cup. “If it’s a prank,” she repeated in a softer tone. She looked 
at Charlie, her face stormy, and Charlie knew that if Carlton had, in fact, 
set all of this up, Marla would never speak to him again. Their happy 
reunion was over. “Yes,” Clay said, “I know. But he doesn’t see it that way.” He took a 
sip of cocoa, searching for words. “The twins, they had totally different 
personalities. Shaun was this outgoing, cheerful guy. He was on the 
debate team. He played soccer, for goodness’ sake! Carlton had never 
gotten near a sports game without being forced. I don’t know how he 
kept it up.” “Still,” Marla said, but she sounded less convinced. “The worst part was,” Clay went on, talking more to himself now 
than to the teenagers, “Shaun had a girlfriend. She really liked him, too, 
but he was just playing the part. Poor girl had been dating a guy who 
didn’t even exist. I think he was surprised when he realized how upset 
people were. He gets carried away and just assumes everyone is having 
as much fun as he is.” Charlie looked at John, and he met her glance anxiously. We don't 
know each other, not really. “Maybe he did set it up,” she said aloud. “Maybe,” Jessica echoed. “I saw him!” Jason said loudly. Before anyone could respond, he 
stormed out of the room, disappearing through a doorway. Marla stood 
automatically and moved to follow him, but Clay put up a hand. “Let him go,” he said. “He needs some time to himself. And I want to 
talk to the rest of you.” He set his mug down and leaned forward. “I know you were just kidding around, but I don’t want to hear you kids 
joking about Freddy Fazbear’s. You know, I wasn’t the chief back then. I 
was still a detective, and I was working on those disappearances. To this 
day, it was the worst thing I’ve ever had to see. It’s not something to joke 
about.” He looked at Charlie. His gray eyes were hard, and the lines of 
his face were immobile; he was no longer the friendly father figure, but 
the police chief, staring as if he could see right through her. Charlie had a 
sudden urge to confess, but she had nothing to confess to. “I’m especially surprised at you, Charlie,” Clay said quietly. Charlie blushed, shame rising up in her with the flush of heat. She 
wanted to protest, to explain herself, to say anything that might soften 
the eyes that seemed to bore into her skull. Instead she ducked her head 
and muttered an indistinct apology. Lamar broke the silence. “Mr. Burke—Clay—did they ever find out who did it? I thought they 
arrested somebody.” Clay didn’t respond for a long moment. He was still looking at 
Charlie, and she felt as if he were trying to tell her something, or else 
read something in her face. “Clay?” Marla said, and he seemed to come back to himself. He 
looked around the group, his expression dark. “Yes,” he said quietly. “We did arrest someone. I did, in fact, and I 
am as sure now that he was guilty as I was then.” “So what happened?” Lamar asked. There was a hush among the 
group, as if something very important was about to happen. “There were no bodies,” Clay Burke said. “We knew it was him; 
there was no doubt in my mind. But the children had disappeared. They 
were never found, and without their bodies ...” He stopped talking, 
staring off into the middle distance as if scarcely aware that they were 
there. “But kidnapping,” Charlie said. “They disappeared!” She was 
suddenly furious, appalled at the obvious injustice. “How can this man 
be walking around somewhere? What if he does it again?” She felt 
Marla’s hand on her arm, and she nodded, settling back, trying to calm down. But the anger was still there inside, seething under the surface of 
her skin. Clay was looking at her with something like curiosity in his 
eyes. “Charlie,” he said, “justice penalizes the guilty, but it must also 
protect the innocent. It means that sometimes the guilty get away with 
terrible things, but it is the price we pay.” He sounded grave, his words 
weighty. Charlie opened her mouth to argue. But this was my price, she 
wanted to say, but before she spoke she looked at his face. He had a grim 
conviction about him; what he was saying mattered very much to him, 
and he believed it utterly. It’s how you sleep at night, she thought with an 
uncharacteristic bitterness. They locked eyes for a long moment, then 
Charlie sighed and nodded, giving up the challenge. Intellectually, she 
didn’t even disagree with him. Clay sat up suddenly in his chair. “So,” he said brightly, “I think it’s a bit too late for you girls to be 
driving back to that motel. Why don’t you spend the night here? We have 
two more guest rooms. And you can scold Carlton for his little prank in 
the morning,” he added with a grin. Lamar and John showed Charlie, Marla, and Jessica up to the 
bedrooms, and Jason reemerged as they headed up the stairs, joining the 
group like he had never been gone. “So Jason and I will take one,” Marla said, “and Jessica, you and 
Charlie can have the other.” “I want to stay with Lamar,” Jason said instantly, and Lamar grinned 
widely before he could help himself. “Yeah, okay,” he said. He glanced at Marla over her brother’s head, 
and she shrugged. “Take him,” she said. “Keep him if you want! So that means 
someone gets her own room,” she went on, “or we could all stay 
together. I know everything is fine, but I kind of feel like we should stay 
together.” She was voicing Charlie’s precise thoughts from only a little 
while before, but now Charlie jumped in. “I’ll take the other room,” she said. Marla gave her a dubious look, and even John looked a little 
surprised, but Charlie just looked at them and said nothing. When the door closed behind her, Charlie sighed with relief. She 
went to the window; it was as she imagined, nothing in view but the 
trees. The house seemed completely isolated, though she knew that the 
driveway and the road were just on the other side. From outside she 
could hear nocturnal birds and the rustling of other, larger creatures on 
the ground below. She felt suddenly restless, wide awake. Looking out 
the window, she almost wanted to go outside, to slip into the woods and 
see what they concealed. She looked at her watch. It was long past 
midnight, so with reluctance she took off her shoes and lay down on the 
bed. It was, like everything else in Carlton’s house, well worn, the kind of 
furniture only owned by people who have been wealthy for generations, 
whose ancestors could afford things of such high quality that they lasted 
for a hundred years. Charlie closed her eyes in what she assumed would 
be a futile effort to find rest, but as she lay there, listening to the sound of 
the woods and Jessica and Marla gossiping and laughing in the next 
room, she felt as if she were sinking into the mattress. Her breath 
deepened, and she was soon asleep. She woke suddenly, startled from sleep. She was a little girl again, 
and her father was asleep in the next room. It was summer, and the 
windows were all open; it had started to rain, and the wind rushed into 
the room in great gusts, blowing her bedroom curtains in a frenetic 
dance and ushering in a fine mist. But that was not why she awoke. 
There was something in the air, something unshakable that gripped her. 
Something was very wrong. Charlie climbed out of bed, lowering herself carefully onto the floor. 
Beside her bed stood Stanley the unicorn, patient and deactivated, 
staring at her with lifeless eyes. She patted his nose, as if giving him 
comfort might bring it to her as well. Quietly, she snuck past him and out 
into the hallway, uncertain what compelled her. She crept down the 
hallway, past her father’s room to the stairs, and ducked down beside the 
wooden bannister as if its open slats could protect her from anything at 
all. She held fast to it as she made her way down the staircase, letting the 
rail take her weight as she avoided the boards that creaked. One by one she took the steps; it felt like ages, like years might pass before she 
reached the bottom, and when she arrived she might be an old woman, 
her whole life spun out in the descent of these stairs. At last Charlie reached the end of the stairs, and she looked down to 
see that she had changed. Her body was no longer small, nightgown-clad 
and barefoot, but her teenage body, tall, strong, and fully clothed. When 
she straightened from her fearful crouch, she stood taller than the 
bannister, and she looked around at her childhood home, startled. This 
is me, she thought. Yes. This is now. Something banged in front of her. The front door was wide open and 
thudding irregularly against the wall, caught by the wind. The rain was 
whipping in, soaking the floor and lashing the coatrack that stood beside 
it, rocking it back and forth like it weighed nothing at all. Leaves and 
small branches were scattered on the floor, ripped from the trees and 
swept in, but Charlie’s eyes went to her old, familiar shoes, her favorites. 
They were placed neatly beside the mat, black patent leather with straps, 
and she could see the rain pooling inside and ruining them. Charlie 
stood still for a moment, transfixed, too far for the rain to reach but close 
enough for the haze to slowly wet her face. She ought to go to the door 
and close it. Instead, Charlie backed away slowly, not taking her eyes from the 
border of the storm. She took a step, then another—and her back hit 
something solid. She whirled around, startled, and saw it. It was the thing from her father’s workshop, the terrible, twitching 
thing. It stood on its own, bent and twisted, with a narrow, reddish, 
canine face and an almost human body. Its clothing was rags, its metal 
joints and limbs stark and exposed, but Charlie registered only its eyes, 
the silver eyes that flashed at her, on and off, over and over, blinking in 
and out of existence. Charlie wanted to run, but her feet would not move. 
She could feel her pulse in her throat, choking her, and she struggled to 
breathe. The thing convulsed, and in slow, jerking motions its hand rose 
up and reached out to touch her face. Charlie drew in a shaking breath, 
unable to duck away, and then it stopped, the hand only inches from her 
cheek. Charlie braced herself, her breath shallow and her eyes screwed 
shut, but the touch of metal and ragged cloth on her skin did not come. 
She opened her eyes. The thing had gone still, and the silver light in its 
eyes was dimmed, nearly out. Charlie backed away from it, watching 
warily, but it did not move, and she began to wonder if it had shut down, 
run out of the finite current that powered it. Its shoulders were hunched 
forward, hapless, and it stared dully past her as if it were lost. Charlie 
felt a sudden stab of sorrow for this creature, that same feeling of lonely 
kinship she felt in her father’s workshop so many years ago. Does it 
hurt? she had asked. She was old enough now to know the answer. All at once, the thing lurched to life. Charlie felt her head go light as 
it took an awkward step toward her, hurtling its body forward as if it had 
only just learned to walk. Its head turned frantically from side to side, 
and its arms jerked up and down with dangerous abandon. Something shattered. It was a lamp, the thing had knocked over a 
ceramic lamp, and the sound of it bursting on the wooden floor shook 
Charlie from her stupor. She turned and ran up the stairs, scrambling as 
fast as her legs would carry her to her father’s door, too scared to even 
call out for him. As she clambered up the steps some small part of her 
realized that they were too big, that she was nearly on all fours, tripping 
barefoot over the hem of her nightgown. She was a little girl again, she 
realized in a bursting moment of awareness, and then it was over, and 
being a little girl was the only thing she could remember. She tried again to scream for her father, but he was already there. 
She did not need to call him. He was standing in the hall, and she 
grabbed at his shirttails as she crouched behind him. He put a hand on 
her shoulder, steadying her, and for the first time, her father’s touch did 
not make Charlie feel that she was safe. Peeking out from behind his 
back, Charlie could see the thing’s ears, then its face, as it climbed the 
stairs in its fitful, jerking steps. Her father stood calm, watching it, as it 
climbed the final stair, and then Charlie’s father grasped her hand and 
disentangled it, gently forcing her to let him go. He went forward to meet 
the thing in large, even strides, but as he reached out to it, Charlie could 
see that his hands were shaking. He touched the thing, put his hands on either side of its face for a long moment, as if he were caressing it, and 
its limbs stopped, head still moving gently from side to side. It looked 
almost bewildered, as if it, too, had awakened to something strange and 
frightening. Charlie’s father did something she could not see, and the 
thing stopped moving; its head drooped, defeated, and its arms fell to its 
sides. Charlie backed up toward her room, feeling her way along the 
wall behind her, not daring to look away from the thing until she was 
safely behind her door. As she looked out one last time into the hallway, 
she could just barely see the glint from its eyes, cast down at the floor. 
Suddenly, the little silver lights flickered. The head did not move, but in a 
slow, calculated arc the eyes swung to meet Charlie’s gaze. Charlie 
whimpered, but she did not look away, and then the head snapped up 
with a crack like something breaking — Charlie startled out of sleep, an involuntary shudder running through 
her. She put a hand to her throat, feeling her heartbeat there, too quick 
and too hard. She darted her eyes around the room, putting together 
where she was one piece at a time. The bed. Not her own. The room. 
Dark; she was alone. The window. The woods outside. Carlton’s house. 
Her breath slowed. The process had only taken seconds, but it disturbed 
her to be so disoriented. She blinked, but the afterbum of those silver 
eyes was still with her, glowing behind her eyelids as if they had been 
real. Charlie stood and went to the window, thrust it open, and leaned 
out, desperate to breathe in the night air. Did that happen? The dream felt like memory, felt like something 
that had happened just moments ago, but that was the nature of dreams, 
wasn’t it? They felt real, and then you woke up. She closed her eyes and 
tried to catch the thread, but it was too difficult to tell what was the 
dream and what was not. She shivered in the breeze, though it was not 
cold, and brought herself back inside. She looked at her watch. Only a 
couple of hours had passed, and it was still hours more until daylight, but 
sleep felt impossible. Charlie put on her shoes and shuffled quietly 
through the hall and down the stairs, hoping not to wake her friends. She 
went out to the porch, sitting down on the front steps and leaning back to 
look up at the sky. There were traces of clouds overhead, but the stars still shone through, scattered overhead, uncountable. She tried to lose 
herself in them as she had as a child, but as she gazed up at the pinpoint 
lights, all she could see were eyes, looking back at her. There was a noise behind her, and she jumped, whirling to press her 
back against the railing. John was standing behind her with a startled 
look on his face. They stared at each other for a moment like strangers, 
and then Charlie found her voice. “Hey, sorry, did I wake you up again?” John shook his head and came to sit beside her. “No, not really. I heard you go out, or I figured it was you. I was 
awake, though—Jason snores like a guy about three times his size.” Charlie laughed. “I had a weird dream,” she said. John nodded, waiting for her to go 
on, but she did not. “What did people think of my father?” she asked 
instead. John leaned back and looked at the stars for a moment, then 
pointed. “That’s Cassiopeia,” he said, and she squinted in the direction of his 
finger. “It’s Orion,” she corrected. “John, I’m serious. What did people think 
about him?” He shrugged uncomfortably. “Charlie, I was a little kid, you know? Nobody told me anything.” “I was a little kid once myself,” she said. “Nobody tells you anything, 
but they talk in front of you like you’re not there. I remember your mom 
and Lamar’s mom talking, making bets on how long Marla’s new 
stepdad would stick around.” “What did they come up with?” John said, amused. “Your mom was banking on three months; Lamar’s mom was more 
optimistic,” Charlie said, grinning, but then her face grew serious again. 
“I can tell you know something,” she said quietly, and after a moment he 
nodded. “Some people thought he did it, yeah,” he admitted. “What?” Charlie was aghast. She stared at him, eyes wide, scarcely 
breathing. “They thought what?” John glanced at her nervously. “I thought that’s what you were asking,” he said. Charlie shook her 
head. Some people thought he did it. “I—no, I meant what did they think of him as a person. Did they 
think he was odd, or kind, or ... I didn’t know ...” She trailed off, lost in 
the magnitude of this new truth. People thought he did it. Of course they 
did. It was his restaurant. The first child to vanish was his child. In the 
absence of a confession or a conviction, who else would anyone think 
of? Charlie shook her head again. “Charlie,” John said hesitantly, “I’m sorry. I just assumed. You must 
have known people would think that, though—if not then, then now.” “Well, I didn’t,” she snapped. She felt a hollow satisfaction when he 
drew back, hurt. She took a deep breath. “I know it sounds obvious,” she 
said in more even tones. “But it just never, ever occurred to me that 
anyone would think he was responsible. And then afterward, after he 
committed—” But that would have only reinforced their suspicions, she 
realized as she said it. “People thought it was because of the guilt,” John said, almost to 
himself. “It was.” Charlie felt anger welling up inside her, the dam about to 
break, and she held it back, biting off words in short, sharp bursts. “Of 
course he felt guilt, it was his restaurant. His life’s work, his creations, 
and it was all turned into a massacre. Don’t you think that’s enough?” 
Her voice sounded vicious, even to her own ears. Apologize, she thought, 
but she ignored it. People thought he did it. He wouldn’t, he couldn’t. But if he had, 
how would she even have known? I knew him, she thought fiercely. But 
did she? She loved him, trusted him, with the blind devotion of a seven- 
year-old girl, even now. She understood him with the knowing and not- 
knowing that comes of being a child. When you focus on your parent as 
if they are the center of the earth, that thing on which your survival 
depends, only later do you realize their flaws, their scars, and their 
weaknesses. Charlie had never had the dawning moments of realization as she 
grew older that her father was only human; she had never had the chance. To her he was still mythic, still larger than life, still the man who could 
deactivate the monsters. He was also the man who made them. How well 
did she really know him? The rage was gone, had ebbed back to wherever it rose from, and she 
was empty of it, her insides dry and vacant. She closed her eyes and put a 
hand to her forehead. “I’m sorry,” she said, and John touched her shoulder for a brief 
moment. “Don’t be,” he said. Charlie put her hands over her face. She did not 
feel like crying, but she didn’t want him to see her face. She was thinking 
of things that were too new, too awful, to think in front of someone else. 
How would I have known if he did? “Charlie?” John cleared his throat and repeated her name. “Charlie, 
you know he didn’t do it, right? Mr. Burke said they knew who did, but 
they had to let him go. He got away with it. Remember?” Charlie didn’t move, but something like hope stirred inside her. “It wasn’t him,” John said again, and she looked up. “Right. Right, of course it wasn’t,” she whispered. “Of course it 
wasn’t him,” she said at a normal pitch. “Of course not,” he echoed. She nodded, bobbing her head up and 
down like she was gathering momentum. “I want to go back to the house one more time,” she said. “I want you 
to come with me.” “Of course,” he said. She nodded again, then turned her face back up 
to the sky. 
Charlie!” Someone was at the door, knocking loud enough to rattle the 
old hinges. Charlie roused slowly, her eyes sticky with sleep, but this 
time at least she knew where she was. She had left the window open, and 
now the air coming in had a fresh, heavy smell: It was the scent of 
coming rain, mossy and rich. She got up and looked out the window, 
inhaling deeply. Unlike most of the world, the woods outside looked 
almost the same in the morning as they had in the dark. Charlie and John 
had gone back to bed soon after they finished talking. John had looked at 
her like there was more he wanted to say, but she had pretended not to 
notice. She was grateful to him for being there, for giving her what she 
needed without having to ask, because she would never have asked. “Charlie!” The banging came again, and she gave in. “I’m up, Marla,” she shouted back. “Charlie!” Now Jason was joining in the game, knocking and ratding, 
and Charlie groaned and went to the door. “I said I’m up,” she said, mock-glaring out at them. “Charlie!” Jason shouted again, and this time Marla shushed him. He grinned up at Charlie, and she laughed and shook her head. “Believe me, I’m awake,” she said. Marla was fully dressed, her hair 
a little damp from the shower, and her eyes were bright and alert. “Are 
you always like this?” Charlie said, her grumpiness only half-invented. “Like what?” “Chipper at six in the morning,” she said and rolled her eyes at Jason, 
who copied her, happy to be included. Marla smiled brightly. “It’s eight! Come on, there’s been talk of 
breakfast.” “Has there been talk of coffee?” Charlie followed Marla and Jason down the stairs to the kitchen, 
where she found Lamar and John already seated around a high, modern¬ 
looking wood table. Carlton’s father was at the stove, making pancakes. “It smells like rain,” Charlie said, and Lamar nodded. “There’s a thunderstorm coming,” he said. “It was on the news 
earlier, he told us.” He jerked a thumb at Clay. “It’s a big one!” Clay exclaimed in response. “We’re supposed to leave today,” Jason said. “We’ll see,” Marla said. “Charlie!” Clay cried, not taking his eyes off his work. “One, two, or 
three?” “Two,” Charlie said. “Thanks. Is there coffee?” “Help yourself. Mugs in the cupboard,” Clay said, gesturing to a full 
pot on the counter. Charlie helped herself, waving off offers of milk, 
cream, half-and-half, sugar, or fake sugar. “Thanks,” she said quietly as she settled herself beside Lamar, 
meeting John’s eyes briefly. “Did Carlton come in?” Lamar shook his head, a tight jerk to the side. “He hasn’t turned up yet,” Clay said. “Probably isn’t awake yet, 
wherever he is.” He placed a full plate in front of Charlie, who dug in, 
not realizing how hungry she was until she was already chewing. She 
was about to ask where Carlton was likely to be when Jessica appeared, 
yawning, her clothes unrumpled, unlike Charlie’s. “You’re late,” Marla teased, and Jessica stretched elaborately. “I don’t get out of bed until the pancakes are ready,” she said, and 
with impeccable timing Clay slapped one onto a plate, fresh off the pan. “Well, you’re just in time,” he said. Suddenly, his expression 
changed, wavering somehow between apprehension and relief. Charlie 
turned in her seat. There was a woman standing behind her, dressed in a 
gray skirt suit, her blonde hair shellacked against her head as if she were 
a plastic toy. “Are we a Waffle House now?” she asked. She looked around the 
kitchen briefly. “Pancakes,” Jessica corrected, but no one responded. “Betty!” Clay cried. “You remember the boys, and this is Charlie, 
Jessica, and Marla. And Jason.” He pointed to each in turn, and Carlton’s 
mother gave each of them a nod, like she was tallying them up. “Clay, I have to be in court in an hour.” “Betty’s the D.A. for the county,” Clay went on as if he had not heard 
her. “I catch the crooks; she puts ’em back out on the streets!” “Yes, our family is a full-service operation,” she said dryly, pouring 
herself coffee and settling down at the table beside Jessica. “Speaking of 
which, where’s our young felon-to-be?” Clay hesitated. “Another one of his pranks,” he said. “He’ll be back 
home later, I’m sure.” Their eyes met, and something private passed 
between them. Betty broke away with a laugh that sounded a little 
forced. “Oh, Lord, what is it this time?” There was a moment’s pause. In the 
morning light, the story sounded insane, and Charlie had no idea where 
to begin. With a nervous clearing of his throat, Lamar started to explain. “We, uh—we went up to the mall construction site, to go see what 
was left of Freddy Fazbear’s.” At the name, Betty’s head jerked up, and she gave a quick nod. “Go on,” she said, her voice suddenly cold and clipped. Lamar explained, awkwardly, and Marla and Jason jumped in with 
details. After a few minutes, Carlton’s mother had a messy version of the 
truth. As she listened, her face hardened until it looked like plaster; she 
was a statue of herself. She shook her head as they finished, small, rapid movements, and Charlie thought she looked like she was not just trying 
to deny what they were saying, but to shake the knowledge entirely from 
her mind. “You have to go get him, Clay, right now,” she demanded. “Send 
someone! How could you wait all night?” She set her coffee on the table more forcefully than she should have, 
spilling a little, then went to the phone and started dialing. “Who are you calling?” Clay said, alarmed. “The police,” she snapped. “I am the police!” “Then why are you here instead of finding my son?” Clay opened and closed his mouth helplessly for a moment before 
finding his bearings. “Betty, it’s just another joke. Remember the frogs?” She set the phone back on its hook and turned to face him, her eyes 
smoldering. Charlie could suddenly see her standing righteous before a 
jury, wreaking the wrath of the law. “Clay.” Her voice was low and steady, a dangerous calm. “How 
could you not wake me up? How could you not tell me this?” “Betty, you were asleep! It’s just Carlton being Carlton. I didn’t want 
to disturb you.” “Did you think I would be less disturbed when I woke up and found 
him missing?” “I thought he would be back by now,” Clay protested. “This is different,” she said with finality. “It’s Freddy’s” “I don’t understand Freddy’s? I know what happened there, what 
happened to those kids,” he retorted. “I don’t understand? For goodness’ 
sake, Betty, I saw Michael’s blood, streaked across the floor where he 
was dragged from—” He stopped, realizing too late that he was 
surrounded by the teenagers. He looked around at them, near panic, but 
his wife had not noticed—or, Charlie thought, she just did not care. “Well, you didn’t see him,” Betty snapped. “Do you remember what 
you told Carlton? Be tough? Be brave, little soldier? So he was brave, he 
was a little soldier for you. He was shattered, Clay! He had lost his best friend, had Michael snatched away right in front of him. Let me tell you 
something, chief: That boy has thought about Michael every single day 
of his life for the last ten years. I have seen him stage jokes so elaborate 
they deserve to be mounted as performance art pieces, but there is no 
way on earth that Carlton would desecrate Michael’s memory by making 
Freddy’s a joke. Call someone right now.” Clay looked slightly shocked, but he gathered himself quickly and 
left the room. Charlie heard a door slam shut behind him. Betty looked 
around at the teenagers, breathing hard as if she had been running. “Everything is going to be fine,” she said tightly. “If he is trapped in 
there, we will get him out. What do you kids have planned for the day?” 
The question was inane, as if they were all going to hang out at the park 
or go to a movie while Carlton might be in danger. “We were supposed to leave today,” Marla said. “Obviously we won’t,” Lamar said hastily, but Betty did not seem to 
be listening to them. “I’ll have to call in to work,” she said distractedly and went to the 
phone to make the call. Charlie looked at John, who jumped to the 
rescue. “We were going to go to the library,” he said. “We had some things 
we wanted to investigate—research!” He blushed faintly when he said it, 
and Charlie knew why. It was absurd to be talking like this, about cases 
and disappearances and murders. But Marla was nodding. “Yeah, we’ll all go,” she said, and Charlie’s heart sank. There was no 
reason she couldn’t just tell them all that she wanted to go back to her 
old house, just her and John. No one would be hurt. But that wasn’t the 
problem—even sharing the knowledge felt too much like exposure. 
Carlton’s mother hung up the phone, done with her call. “I hate this,” she announced to the room in general, her careful, 
controlled voice almost shaking. “I hate this!” Charlie and the others 
jumped in unison, startled by the sudden outburst. “And now, like 
always, I get to sit here by myself hoping and praying that everyone will 
be okay.” Charlie looked at Marla, who shrugged helplessly. Lamar cleared his throat nervously. “I think we’ll stick around for another day,” he said. 
There was a pause, then Marla and Jessica jumped in to help. “Yeah, traffic is crazy out there,” Jessica said, high-pitched and 
forced. “Yeah, and also because of the storm, and it’s not like we’re going to 
have fun knowing he’s missing,” Marla said. “I guess you’re stuck with us.” Jessica flashed an anxious smile at 
Carlton’s mother, who did not seem to register it. “Come on,” John said before anyone else could speak. He and 
Charlie hurried out of the house and got into the car. Charlie heaved a sigh of relief as she started the engine. “That was 
awful,” she said. “Yeah.” He gave her a worried look. “What do you think? About 
Carlton?” Charlie didn’t answer until she was safely backed out of the 
driveway. “I think his mom is right,” she said, pulling into gear. “I think 
last night we all let ourselves believe what we wanted to believe.” Officer Dunn pulled to a stop in the mall parking lot, responding to Chief 
Burke’s order to return. In the light of day it was just an abandoned 
construction site, an ugly blemish on the flat desert landscape. You can ’t 
tell from looking if it’s being built up or torn down, Dunn thought. Can’t 
tell creation from destruction at a distance. He liked the phrase; he 
turned it over in his head for a moment, staring at the place. On impulse, 
he radioed dispatch. “Hey, Norah,” he said. “Dunn,” she answered crisply. “What’s going on?” “Back at the mall for another look,” he said. “Ooh, bring me back a soft pretzel,” she teased. He laughed and 
broke the connection. As he walked briskly through the mall, Dunn was at least grateful the 
children were not there this time. As the youngest member of the 
Hurricane Police Department, Dunn always took care to think of teenagers as children, even though he knew how small the gap between 
them was. If he could bring them to believe he was a responsible adult, 
hopefully at some point he would believe it, too. Dunn flipped on his flashlight as he reached the entrance to the 
narrow alleyway that led to Freddy Fazbear’s. He swept the beam up and 
down the walls ahead of him, but the alley was empty of life. He took a 
deep breath and went in. Dunn kept to the wall, his shoulder brushing 
lightly against the rough brick as he tried to avoid the puddles that 
pooled beneath leaky pipes. The bright beam of his flashlight illuminated 
the alley almost as well as overhead bulbs, but somehow the light was 
not comforting—it only made the place look stark and grim, the shelves 
of tools and rejected paint cans now woeful and exposed. As he moved 
toward the door to the restaurant, something tiny and cold landed on his 
head, and he startled, swinging his light up like a weapon and pressing 
his back against the wall as defense against the threat. Another cold drop 
of water landed on his cheek. He took deep breaths. When at last he reached the outer door to the restaurant, the shelf that 
had blocked it was gone. The chains that had seemed so permanently 
fixed in place were hanging loose, and the door was cracked open 
slightly. The immense, rusted padlock lay in the dirt, its shackle hanging 
open. Dunn kicked it away from the door. He dug his fingers into the 
gap, prying until he could get a grip on it, then pulled at the door with 
both hands until it screeched open wide enough for him to enter. He crept 
down the inner passage with his light held out in front, hugging the wall 
tight to one side. The air seemed to change as he moved closer to the 
interior of the restaurant, and Dunn felt a crawling chill that penetrated 
his uniform and fed his growing anxiety. “Don’t freak out, Dunn,” he said out loud, then felt instantly foolish. He reached the main dining area and stopped, sweeping the light over 
each wall in turn. The light seemed dimmer inside, swallowed by the 
space. The room was empty, but it was just as he remembered from when 
he was a kid. He had been ten when the tragedies started, eleven when 
they ended. His birthday party was supposed to be at Freddy’s, but after 
the first disappearance his mother had cancelled it, invited his friends to his house, and hired a clown, which proved equally terrifying. Smart 
move, Mom, Dunn thought. The beam played over the little carousel, 
which he had never ridden, claiming he was too old for it. Just before the 
beam of light reached the stage, Dunn stopped, swallowing hard. The 
rabbit took him, the kid had said. Dunn shook himself and played the 
light across the stage. The figures were there, just as he remembered, and, unlike the 
carousel, they did not seem diminished in size. They were exactly as he 
recalled, and for a moment an almost painful nostalgia swelled in his 
chest. As he gazed at them, remembering, he noticed that their eyes were 
all fixed oddly forward like they were watching something on the far side 
of the room. The flashlight trained in front of him, Dunn approached the 
stage until he was standing only a few feet from it, and he stared up at 
each of the animals in turn. Bonnie was holding his guitar jauntily, as if 
he might begin strumming whenever the mood struck him, and Chica 
and her cupcake seemed to be sharing some arcane secret. Freddy, with 
his microphone, stared out into the distance, unblinking. Something moved behind him, and Dunn whirled around, his heart 
racing. The flashlight found nothing, and he swept it nervously from side 
to side, revealing only empty tables. He glanced back nervously at 
Bonnie, but the rabbit was still frozen in his own inscrutable reverie. Dunn took shallow breaths, holding himself completely still, and 
listened, his senses kicked into high gear with adrenaline. After a 
moment the noise came again—a shuffling sound, this time coming from 
off to the right. He swept the light instantly toward it. There was an open 
doorway, and beyond it a hall. Crouching down, Dunn made his way 
down the hall, keeping to the side as though something might come 
running past. Why am I here alone? He knew the answer. His sergeant 
hadn’t taken the search seriously—in truth, neither had Dunn. After all, it 
was just the chief’s son again, making trouble. It’s probably just Carlton, 
Dunn reminded himself. He reached the end of the hall, where a door stood ajar. With one 
hand Dunn gave the door an inward push, dropping low and to the side 
as he did. The door swung inward, and nothing happened. He pulled the nightstick from his belt. Its heft was unfamiliar—he had never had much 
need for it in Hurricane. Now, though, he gripped its hard rubber handle 
like a lifeline. The office was not quite empty; there was a small desk, and a folded- 
up metal chair leaned against it. A large cabinet stood against one wall, 
its door open just a crack. There were no exits other than the one Dunn 
was standing in. He swept the light up and down the length of the cabinet 
and took a deep breath. He bounced his nightstick lighdy in his hand, 
reassuring himself of its presence, and carefully assessed the small space. 
Standing to the side, he used the stick to open the door, moving slowly. It 
came open easily, and again, everything was still. Relieved, Dunn looked 
inside. The cabinet was empty—except for a costume. It was Bonnie, or rather it wasn’t. The face was the same, but the 
rabbit’s fur was yellow. It was slumped lifelessly against the back wall of 
the cabinet, its eyes dark, gaping holes. The rabbit took him. The kid 
hadn’t been lying, then; Carlton must have gotten someone to dress up in 
this outfit to help him play his trick. Still, Dunn’s unease did not abate; 
he did not want to touch the thing. He lowered his light and stuck his 
nightstick back in his belt, intending to go. Before he could turn, the costume pitched forward, landing on Dunn 
with the lifeless weight of a heavy corpse. For a moment it did not move, 
then all at once it was writhing violently, grabbing at him with strong, 
inhuman hands. Dunn screamed, a desperate, high sound, struggling as 
the rabbit gripped his shirt, then his arm. Dunn felt a sudden, vicious 
pain, and a small, detached part of his mind thought, He broke it; he 
broke my arm. But the pain was washed numb by terror as the rabbit 
swung him around and slammed him into the cabinet door, taking 
Dunn’s weight easily as if he were a child. Dunn struggled to breathe; the 
rabbit’s arm was pressed against his neck so tightly that every movement 
choked him. Just when he thought he was on the brink of passing out, the 
pressure lifted, and Dunn gasped with relief, clutching his throat. Then 
he saw the knife. The rabbit held a slim silver blade. Its big, matted paws should have 
been too clumsy, but Dunn knew as he stared down at it that the rabbit had done this before and would easily do it again. Dunn screamed, an 
indistinct shriek. He had no hope that he would be heard; it was only a 
guttural, despairing noise. He breathed deep and did it again, a bestial 
sound, his whole body vibrating with it, as if this could somehow be 
defense against what happened next. The knife went in. Dunn felt it tear through skin and muscle, felt it 
sever things he could not name to plant itself deep in his chest. As he 
seized with pain and terror, the rabbit pulled him close, almost in an 
embrace. Dunn’s head went light; he was losing consciousness. As he 
looked up, he could see two rows of smiling teeth, horrid and yellow, the 
costume peeling at the edges of the mouth. The two gaping holes for eyes 
looked down at him. They were dark and hollow, but the creature drew 
near enough that Dunn could see smaller eyes peering back at him from 
deep within the mask. They held Dunn’s gaze patiently. Dunn felt his 
legs go numb, his vision clouding. He wanted to scream again, to 
somehow voice his final outrage, but he could not move his face, could 
not raise the breath to cry out. The rabbit held him upright, supporting 
his weight, and its eyes were the last thing Dunn ever saw. 
Charlie unlocked the front door to her old house and looked back down 
the front steps. “You coming?” John was still standing on the bottom step, staring up at the house. He 
shivered a little before hurrying to join her. “Sorry,” he said sheepishly. “I just had a weird feeling for a second.” 
Charlie laughed without much humor. “Just for a second?” They went inside, and John stopped again, looking around the front 
room like he had just stepped into a sacred place, somewhere that 
merited a humbling pause. Charlie bit her tongue, trying not to be 
impatient. It was how she had felt as well; she might have felt that way 
now if she were not overwhelmed by a sense of urgency, the feeling that 
the answer to everything, the answer to how to get Carlton back, must be somewhere in this place. Where else could it possibly be? “John,” she said, “it’s okay. Come on.” He nodded and followed her up the stairs to the second floor. He 
stopped again briefly halfway up, and Charlie saw his eyes fixed on the 
dark stain that marred the wood floor of the living room. “Is—” he began to say, then swallowed it and started over. “Is 
Stanley still there?” Charlie pretended not to notice the lapse. “You remember his name!” she said instead, grinning. John 
shrugged. “Who doesn’t love a mechanical unicorn?” “Yeah, he’s still there. All the toys still work. Come on.” They 
hurried the rest of the way to her room. John knelt down beside the unicorn and pressed the button that set 
him on his track, watching raptly as he made his squeaky way around the 
room. Charlie hid a smile behind her hand. John was watching intently, 
his face serious as if something very important were happening. For a 
moment he looked just like he had so many years ago, his hair falling 
into his face, his whole attention fixed on Stanley like nothing in the 
world was more important than this robotic creature. Suddenly his attention was called upward, and his face lit up as he 
pointed. “Your big-girl closet! It’s open!” he exclaimed, getting back to his 
feet and approaching the tallest of the three closets, which was hanging 
open slightly. He pulled it open all the way, then leaned in, finding it 
empty. “So what was in it all those years?” he asked. “Not sure,” Charlie said with a shrug. “I sort of remember Aunt Jen 
bringing me back at some point, but I could be wrong. Maybe it was full 
of clothes that I was finally big enough to wear. Aunt Jen was always 
thrifty—why spend money on new clothes if you don’t have to, right?” 
She smiled. John glanced briefly at the smaller closets, but he left them alone. “I’m going to see if I can find any photo albums or paperwork,” 
Charlie said, and she nodded absently as Stanley rattled back to his starting point. As she left the room, she heard him starting up again, 
making another round on the track. The room that had been her father’s was next to Charlie’s. It was at 
the back of the house, and it had too many windows. In the summer it 
was too hot, and in the winter the cold dribbled in like a persistent leak, 
but Charlie had known without being told why he used it. From here you 
could see the garage and his workshop. It had always made sense to 
Charlie; that was his place, like a part of him always lived there, and he 
did not like to be too far away from his touchstone. A wave from her 
dream came to her for a moment, not even an image, just a strange, 
evocative gesture of memory. She frowned, looking out the window at 
the closed, silent garage door. Or maybe he just wanted to be sure nothing got out, she thought. She 
broke away from the window, shrugging her shoulders and shaking her 
hands, sloughing off the feeling. She looked around the room. Like her 
own, it was all but untouched. She did not open the drawers to his 
dresser, but for all she knew, it might still have been filled with shirts 
and socks, clean, folded, and ready to wear. His bed was made crisply, 
covered in the plaid blanket he used as a bedspread after Charlie’s 
mother left, when there was no one to insist on white linen. There was a 
large bookcase against one wall, and it was still stuffed with books. 
Charlie went over and began scanning the shelves. Many were textbooks, 
engineering tomes whose titles meant nothing to her, and the rest were 
nonfiction, a collection that would have seemed eclectic to anyone who 
did not know the man. There were books on biology and anatomy, some on human beings 
and others on animals; there were books about the history of the traveling 
carnival and of the circus. There were books about child development, 
about myths and legends, and about sewing patterns and techniques. 
There were volumes that claimed to be about trickster gods, about 
quilting bees, and about football cheering squads and their mascots. On 
the very top shelf were stacks of file folders, and the bottom shelf was 
empty except for a single book: a photo album, leather-bound and as 
pristine as time and dust could allow. Charlie grabbed it, and it stuck for a moment, almost too tall for the low shelf it had been given. After a 
minute it came free, and she headed back to her bedroom, leaving the 
door open with the sudden sense that if it closed she might never get 
back in. John was sitting on the bed when she returned, looking at Stanley 
with his head tilted to the side. “What?” Charlie said, and he looked up, still pensive. “I was wondering if he’s been lonely,” he said, then shrugged. “He’s got Theodore,” Charlie said, pointing to the stuffed rabbit with 
a smile. “It’s Ella who’s all alone in the closet. Watch.” She placed the 
album beside John on the bed and went to its foot, then turned the wheel 
that set Ella on her track. She sat down beside him, and they watched 
together, spellbound as of old, as the little doll came out in her crisp, 
clean dress to blankly offer tea. Neither of them spoke until the smallest 
closet door closed behind her. John cleared his throat. “So what’s in the book?” “Photos,” Charlie said. “I haven’t looked at them yet.” She picked up 
the album and opened it at random. The top picture was of her mother 
holding a baby, maybe a year old. She held the child above her head, 
flying it like an airplane, her head thrown back in the midst of a laugh, 
her long brown hair swinging out in an arc behind her. The baby’s eyes 
were wide, its mouth open in delight. John smiled at her. “You look so happy,” he said, and she nodded. “Yeah,” she said. “I guess I must have been.” If that’s me, she did not 
add aloud. She opened to another page, where the only picture was a 
large family portrait, stiffly posed at a studio. They were dressed 
formally: Charlie’s father was wearing a suit; her mother was in a bright- 
pink dress with padding that lifted her shoulders almost to her ears, and 
her brown hair was straightened flat in place. Each of them was holding a 
baby, one in a white frilly dress and one in a sailor suit. Charlie’s heart 
skipped, and beside her she heard John take a sharp, quick breath. She 
looked at him with a feeling like the floor was dropping away beneath 
them. “It was real,” she said. “I didn’t imagine him.” John said nothing in response, just nodded. He put a hand on her 
shoulder briefly, and then they turned back to the photo album. “We all looked so happy,” Charlie said softly. “I think you were,” John said. “Look, you had such a goofy smile.” 
He pointed, and Charlie laughed. The whole book was like that, the first memories of a happy family 
who expected there to be many more. They were not arranged 
chronologically, so Charlie and Sammy appeared as toddlers, then as 
newborns, then at various stages in between. Except on formal occasions 
when Charlie was put into a dress—of which there seemed to be few—it 
was impossible to tell which baby was which. There were no traces of 
Fredbear’s Family Diner. Near the back of the book, Charlie came to a Polaroid of her and 
Sammy together, infants bright red and squalling on their backs, wearing 
nothing but diapers and hospital wristbands. On the white space below 
the picture someone had written, “Momma’s Boy and Daddy’s Girl.” The rest of the pages were blank. Charlie went back again, opening at 
random to find a strip from a photo booth, four shots of her parents 
alone. They smiled at each other, then made faces at the camera, then 
laughed, missing the chance to pose and blurring their faces. Lastly they 
smiled into the lens. Her mother was beaming happily at the camera, her 
face alight and flushed, but her father was staring into the distance, a 
smile fixed on his face like he had left it there by mistake. His dark eyes 
were intense, remote, and Charlie resisted a sudden urge to look behind 
her, as if she might see whatever it was he was looking at. She peeled 
back the cellophane from the album’s page and took the strip out, then 
folded it in half, careful to place the crease between pictures, leaving 
them intact. She slipped the pictures into her pocket and looked at John, 
who was watching her again as if she were some kind of unpredictable 
creature he needed to be careful around. “What?” she said. “Charlie, you know I don’t think he did it, right?” “You said that.” “I’m serious. It’s not just what Carlton’s dad said. I knew him, as well as a kid can know some other kid’s dad—he wouldn’t do it. I 
wouldn’t believe it.” He spoke with calm certainty, like someone who 
believed that the world was made out of facts and tangible things and 
that there was such a thing as truth. Charlie nodded. “I know,” she said. She took her next breath slowly, gathering the 
words she would speak with it. “But I might.” His eyes widened, startled, 
and she looked up at the ceiling for a minute, briefly trying to remember 
if all the cracks had been there when she was a child. “I don’t mean I think he did it; I don’t think that,” she said. “I don’t 
think about it at all. I can’t. I shut the whole thing off in my mind the day 
I left Hurricane. I don’t think about Freddy’s. I don’t think about what 
happened, and I don’t think about him.” John was looking at her like she was monstrous, like what she was 
saying was the worst thing he had ever heard. “I don’t understand how you can say things like that,” he said quietly. 
“You loved him. How can you even consider the possibility that he 
would do something so terrible?” “Even the people who do terrible things have people who love them.” 
Charlie was looking for words. “I don’t think he did it; I’m not saying 
that,” she said again, and again the words hit the air as flimsy as paper. 
“But I remember him dressing up for us in the yellow Freddy suit, doing 
the dances, miming along with the songs. It was so much a part of him. 
He was the restaurant; there was no one else. And he was always so 
distant, like in that picture; there was always something else going on 
beneath the surface. It was like he had a real life and a secret life, you 
know?” John nodded and looked about to speak, but Charlie rushed on before 
he could. “We were the secret life. His real life was his work; it was what 
mattered. We were his guilty pleasure, the thing he got to love and sneak 
away to have time with, something he kept hidden away from the 
dangers of what he did in his real world. And when he was with us, there 
was always a part of him that was back in reality, whatever that was for 
him.” Again John opened his mouth, but Charlie snapped the photo album 
shut, stood up, and left the room. John didn’t follow right away, and as 
she traversed the short hall to her father’s bedroom, she could almost 
hear him making up his mind. Not waiting for him, she went to the 
bookshelf, wanting to get the book out of her hands, like maybe if it were 
closed up and put away, her mind, too, would return to its normal order. 
The book would not fit, and she dropped to her knees to get a better 
angle, trying to jam the thing back where it belonged, get it out of her 
hands. The shelf seemed to have shrunk, sunk down while she was gone, 
so that it could never be returned, never put right. With a cry of frustration, Charlie shoved the photo album in as hard 
as she could. The shelf rocked back and then forward, and a sudden mass 
of papers and file folders tumbled from above her. Charlie began to cry 
as pages drifted down around her, covering the floor like snow as she 
wept. Swiftly, John was there. He knelt down with her in the delicate wreckage, clearing papers 
away as quickly as he could without tearing them. He put a hand on her 
shoulder carefully, and she did not move away. He pulled her close and 
held her, and she hugged him back, gripping so tight she knew she must 
be hurting him, but she could not let go. She sobbed harder, as if being 
held, being contained, made it safe to let go. Long minutes passed; John 
stroked her hair, and Charlie still cried, her body shaking with the force 
of it, shuddering like she was possessed. She was not thinking of what 
had happened, not flitting from one memory to the next to mourn for 
them all—her mind was all but blank. She held nothing, was nothing, but 
this feeling of racking sobs. Her face was sore with tension, her chest 
hurt like all her pain was being forced out through its wall, and still she 
cried as if she would cry forever. But forever was an illusion. Slowly her breathing calmed, and finally 
Charlie returned to herself and pushed away from John’s shoulder, 
exhausted. Once again John was left with his arms partially suspended in 
the air, caught off guard by their sudden emptiness. He tried to move out 
of the awkward pose without calling attention to himself. Charlie sat 
back against the side of her father’s bed, leaning her head against it. She felt wrung out, stretched thin and aged, but she felt a little better. She 
gave John a tiny smile, and she saw relief pass over his face at this first 
sign that she might be all right. “I’m okay,” she said. “It’s just this place; it’s all this.” She felt silly 
trying to explain, but John scooted back to sit with her. “Charlie, you don’t have to explain. I know what happened.” “Do you?” She looked at him searchingly, not sure how to put the 
question. It seemed too crude, too graphic, to say it outright. “Do you 
know how my dad died, John?” He looked immediately nervous. “I know he killed himself,” he said 
hesitantly. “No, I mean—do you know how?” “Oh.” John looked down at his feet as if he could not meet her eyes. 
“I thought he stabbed himself,” he said quietly. “I remember hearing my 
mom and dad talk—she said something about a knife, and all the blood.” “There was a knife,” Charlie said. “And there was blood.” She closed 
her eyes and kept them shut as she talked. She could feel John’s eyes on 
her face, watching every movement, but she knew if she looked at him 
she would not be able to finish. “I never saw it,” she said. “I mean, I never saw the body. I don’t 
know if you remember, but my aunt came to get me at school in the 
middle of the day.” She stopped, waiting for confirmation, her eyes shut 
tight. “I remember,” John’s voice said from the darkness. “It was the last 
time I ever saw you.” “Yeah. She came and got me, and I knew something was wrong— 
you don’t go home from school in the middle of the day because 
everything’s fine. She took me outside to her car, but we didn’t get in 
right away. She picked me up and set me on the hood of the car, and she 
told me she loved me.” “I love you, Charlie, and everything is going to be okay, ” Aunt Jen 
said, and then she destroyed the world with the next words she spoke. “She told me that my father had died, and she asked if I knew what 
that meant.” And Charlie nodded, because she did know, and because, with an 
awful prescience, she was not surprised. “She said I was going to stay with her for a couple of days, and we 
would go get some clothes from the house. When we got there, she 
picked me up like I was a little kid, and as we went through the door, she 
covered my face with her hand so I wouldn’t see what was in the living 
room. But I did see.” It was one of his creatures, one she had never seen, and it was facing 
the stairs; its head was bowed a little so that Charlie could see that the 
back of its skull was open, the circuits exposed. The limbs and joints lay 
bare, a skeleton of naked metal strung with twisting wires of bloodless 
circulation, and its arms were outstretched in a lonesome facsimile of an 
embrace. It was standing in the middle of a dark, still pool of some liquid 
that seemed, though it must have been imperceptible, to be spreading. 
She could see its face, if it could be called a face—its features were 
scarcely formed, crude and shapeless. Even so, Charlie could see that 
they were contorted, almost grotesque; the thing would be weeping, if it 
could have wept. She stared at it for ages, though it could have been less 
than seconds, no more than a glimpse as Aunt Jen swept her up the 
stairs. Yet she had seen it so many times since then, when she slept, when 
she woke, when she unguardedly closed her eyes. It would appear to her, 
the face pressing its way into her mind as it had pressed into the world. 
Its blind eyes were only raised bumps like the eyes of a statue, seeing 
nothing but its own grief. In its hand, almost an afterthought, was the 
knife. When Charlie saw the knife, the whole thing snapped into focus. 
She knew what the thing was, and she knew what it had been built for. John was staring at her, horror creeping in. “That’s how he ... ?” He trailed off. Charlie nodded. “Of course.” He made a move to comfort her again, 
but it was the wrong thing to do. Without thinking, Charlie moved 
slightly, slipping out of reach, and his face fell. “Sorry,” she said quickly. “I just—sorry.” John shook his head quickly and turned to the jumble of papers on 
the floor. “We should look through these, see if there’s anything here,” he said. “Sure,” she said brusquely, dismissing his attempts at reassurance. They began randomly; everything had fallen in such a mess that there 
was no other way to begin. Most of the papers were engineering 
blueprints and pages of equations, incomprehensible to them both. There 
were tax forms, which John took up eagerly, hoping for information 
about Fredbear’s Family Diner, but he gave up with a sigh after fifteen 
minutes, flinging the papers down. “Charlie, I can’t figure this out. Let’s check through the rest, but I 
don’t think puzzling at it is going to turn us into mathematicians or 
accountants.” Stubbornly, Charlie kept picking through the papers, hoping for 
something she would understand. She picked up a sheaf of paper, trying 
to straighten the next stack, and a photograph fell out from the pile. John 
snatched it up. “Charlie, look,” he said, suddenly excited. She took it from his hand. It was her father, in his workshop, wearing the yellow Freddy 
Fazbear costume. The head was tucked under his arm, staring sightlessly 
into the camera, but Charlie’s father was smiling, his face pink and 
sweaty as if he had been in the costume for a long time. Beside him was 
a yellow Bonnie. “The yellow rabbit,” Charlie said. “Jason said there was a yellow 
rabbit.” “But your father is in the bear costume.” “The rabbit must be a robot,” Charlie said. “Look at the eyes, they’re 
red.” She peered closer. The eyes were glinting red, but they weren’t 
glowing, and in a moment she saw why. “It’s not red eyes, it’s red eye! 
There’s a person in there!” “So who... ?” “... who is in the suit?” Charlie finished the question for him. “We have to go to the library,” John said, jumping to his feet. Charlie 
stayed where she was, still staring down at the picture. “Charlie?” “Yeah,” she said. He held out a hand to pull her up. As they descended the staircase, John hung back briefly, but Charlie did not turn around. She knew what he was imagining, because she was 
picturing it, too: the stain on the floor, slowly spreading. 
Charlie drove fast to the library, a grim urgency hanging over her. The 
promised storm was in the air, the smell of it rising like a warning. In a 
strange way, the worsening weather satisfied something in Charlie. 
Storms inside, storms outside. “I’ve never been this eager to get to the library,” John joked, and she 
smiled tightly, without humor. The main library in Hurricane was next to the elementary school 
where they had gone for the memorial ceremony, and as they got out of 
the car, Charlie glanced at the playground, envisioning children 
screaming and laughing as they ran circles, immersed in their games. We 
were so young. They hurried up the few steps to the library together, a square, 
modern brick building that looked as if it had come paired with the 
school beside it. She only remembered the library vaguely from her 
childhood; they had gone infrequently, and Charlie had spent all her time 
there sitting on the floor in the children’s section. Being able to see over 
the information desk was slightly disconcerting. The librarian was young, Charlie thought, an athletic-seeming woman 
in slacks and a purple sweater. She smiled brightly. “What can I do for you?” she said. Charlie hesitated. The woman was 
maybe in her late twenties; Charlie realized that ever since she returned 
to Hurricane she had been paying attention to age, scrutinizing each face 
and calculating how old they had been when it happened. This woman 
would have been a teenager. It doesn ’t matter, she thought. You still have 
to ask. She opened her mouth to ask for information about Fredbear’s, 
but what came out instead was, “Are you from Hurricane?” The librarian shook her head. “No, I’m from Indiana.” Charlie felt 
her body relax. She wasn ’t here. “Do you have any information on a place called Fredbear’s Family 
Diner?” Charlie asked, and the woman frowned. “Do you mean Freddy Fazbear’s? They used to have one of those 
here, I think,” she said vaguely. “No, that’s not the one,” Charlie said, ready to be endlessly patient 
with the librarian, who was, thankfully, probably the only person in town 
who was somehow unaware of her history. “Well, for town records, things like incorporation and licensing, you 
would have to go to City Hall, but it’s—” She checked her watch. “It’s 
after five, so not today anyway. I have newspapers all the way back to 
the 1880s, if you want to look at microfilm,” she said eagerly. “Yeah, okay,” Charlie said. “I’m Harriet,” the woman said as she led them to a door at the back 
of the building. They recited their names dutifully, and she chattered on 
like a child about to display her favorite toy. “So you know what microfilm is, right? It’s because we can’t keep 
stacks and stacks of papers here. There’s no room, and eventually they 
would rot, so it’s a way to preserve them. They take pictures and save the 
film; it’s almost like a movie reel, you know? Very small. So you need a 
machine to see it.” “We know what it is,” John cut in when she paused. “We just don’t 
know how to use it.” “Well, that’s what I’m here for!” Harriet declared and threw the door 
open. Inside was a table with a computer monitor. The monitor sat on top 
of a little box with a small wheel on each side. Two handles stuck out in 
front. Charlie and John looked at it bemusedly, and Harriet grinned. “You want the local paper, right? What years?” “Um ...” Charlie counted backward. “1979 to 1982?” she hazarded. 
Harriet beamed and left the room. John bent forward to peer at the 
machine, rattling the handles a little. “Careful,” Charlie warned jokingly. 
“I think she might be lost without that thing.” John raised his hands to his 
shoulders and stepped back. Harriet reappeared with what looked like four small movie reels and 
held them up. “What year do you want to start with?” she said. “1979?” “I guess,” Charlie said, and Harriet nodded. She went to the machine and threaded the film through expertly. She flipped a switch and the 
screen came to life; a newspaper appeared. “January 1, 1979,” John announced, leaning forward to read the 
headlines. “Politics, somebody won a sports game, and there was some 
weather. Also there was a bakery giving away free cookies to celebrate 
the New Year. Sounds like now, except no cookies.” “You use these to see more,” Harriet said, manipulating the controls. 
“Let me know if you need help switching the reels. Have fun, you two!” 
She winked conspiratorially and closed the door behind her as she left. Charlie positioned herself in front of the machine, and John stood 
behind her, his hand on her chair. It felt good to have him close, like he 
would stop anything that tried to sneak up on her. “This is pretty cool,” he remarked, and she nodded, scanning the 
paper for answers. “Okay, let’s narrow it down,” he said grimly. “What’s the thing most 
likely to make the papers?” “I was looking for an opening announcement,” Charlie said. “Yeah, but what’s going to make the papers? Sorry,” he added. “I 
didn’t want to say it, but we have to.” “Sammy,” Charlie said. “We should have started with Sammy. We 
moved to the new house when I was three; it’s got to be 1982.” Carefully, they switched the reel. Charlie eyed the door as they did, 
as if nervous that Harriet might catch them making a mistake. “When’s your birthday?” John said, sitting to take her place. “Don’t you know?” she teased. He screwed up his face in an 
exaggerated mime of thinking. “May thirteenth,” he said at last. She laughed, startled. “How did you know?” He grinned up at her. “Because I know things,” he said. “But why does it matter?” “You remember being three when you moved, but you didn’t turn 
three until May, so we knock out five months. Do you remember 
anything about the restaurant the night Sammy disappeared?” Charlie felt herself flinch with an almost physical pain. “Sorry,” she said. Her face felt too hot. “Sorry, you startled me. Let 
me think.” She closed her eyes. The restaurant. The closet, hung full with costumes. She and Sammy, 
there safe in the dark, until the door opened, and the rabbit appeared, 
leaning over them with its awful face, its human eyes. Charlie’s heart was 
racing. She slowed her breathing and held out a hand; John took hold of 
it. She held on tight, as if he could anchor her. The rabbit leaning over 
them, the yellow teeth beneath the mask, and behind the rabbit what 
was behind the rabbit? The restaurant was open; she could hear voices, 
people. There were more people in costumes—other performers? 
Robots? No She almost had it. Scarcely breathing, Charlie tried to 
coax out the thought, scared to frighten it away. Move slowly; speak 
softly. She had it, snatched it from the depths of her mind and held it 
wriggling in her fingers. Her eyes snapped open. “John, I know when it was,” she said. Earlier that night, when they were still wide awake, the closet 
opened, and her mother looked in. She was haloed by the light from 
behind her, smiling down at her twins, radiant in her long, elegant dress, 
her flowing hair, her gleaming tiara. Mommy’s a princess, Charlie 
murmured sleepily, and her mother bent down and kissed her cheek. Just 
for tonight, she whispered, and then she left them in the dark to sleep. “She was a princess,” she said excitedly. “What? Who?” “My mother,” Charlie said. “She was dressed up as a princess. It was 
a Halloween party. John, go to November first.” John struggled briefly with the controls, and then it was there. The 
headline was small, but it was on the front page of the paper on Monday, 
November 1: toddler snatched. Charlie turned away. John began to 
read aloud, and Charlie cut in, stopping him. “Don’t,” she said. “Just tell me if it has anything useful.” He was quiet, and she stared anxiously at the door, waiting, tracing 
the knots in the false wood with her eyes. “There’s a picture,” he said finally. “You need to look.” She leaned over his shoulder. The story had continued over an entire page inside, with pictures of the restaurant, of the family all together, and 
of her and of Sammy, though neither of the twins were named in the 
article. In the bottom left comer, there was a picture of her father and 
another man. Their arms were slung around each other’s shoulders, and 
they were grinning happily. “John,” Charlie said. “It says they were joint owners,” John said quietly. “No,” Charlie said, unable to take her eyes from the picture, from the 
face they both knew. Suddenly the door behind them empted in pounding from outside, 
and they both jumped. “CHARLIE! JOHN! ARE YOU IN THERE?” “Marla,” they said as one, and Charlie rushed to the door and threw it 
open. “Marla, what is it?” She was red-faced and breathless, and Harriet was anxiously 
hovering behind her. Marla’s hair was wet; water dripped down her face, 
but she did not wipe it away or even seem to notice. I guess the rain 
started, Charlie thought, the mundane reflection drifting unbidden into 
her head despite her alarm. “He’s gone! Jason’s gone,” Marla cried. “What?” John said. “He’s gone back to Freddy’s; I know he has,” she said. “He kept 
saying we should go back, that we shouldn’t just be hanging around all 
day. I thought he was in another room, but I looked everywhere. I know 
that’s where he is!” She said it all in one breath and ended gasping, a 
faint, whining hum resonating under her breathing, a keening sound she 
seemed unable to stop making. “Oh no,” Charlie said. “Come on,” Marla pressed. She was jittering, vibrating; John put a 
hand on her shoulder as if to comfort her, and she shook her head. “Don’t 
try to calm me down, just come with me,” she insisted, but there was no 
anger, only desperation. She turned and almost ran to the door, and John 
and Charlie followed with an apologetic look for the bemused librarian they left behind them. 
Carlton opened his eyes, disoriented, his head stuffed tight with a 
massive, pulsing ache. He was half sitting, stiffly propped against a wall, 
and he found he could not move his arms. His body was covered in little, 
random places of sharp pain and tingling numbness; he tried to shift 
away from the discomfort, but he was restrained somehow, and the little 
moves he could make just made new places hurt. He looked around the 
room, trying to get his bearings. It looked like a storage room: There 
were boxes along the walls, and discarded cans of paint and other 
cleaning supplies littered the floor, but there was more. There were piles 
of furry fabric everywhere. Carlton peered at them sleepily. He felt 
muzzy, like if he closed his eyes he could just fall back asleep, so easily 
... No. He shook his head hard, trying to clear it, and yelped. “Oh no,” he 
groaned as the throbbing in his head demanded attention and his stomach 
flipped. He clenched his jaw and closed his eyes, waiting for the 
pounding and nausea to recede. Eventually they did, fading back to something almost manageable, 
and he opened his eyes again, starting over. This time his mind had 
cleared a little, and he looked down at his body to see his restraints. Oh 
no. He was wedged inside the heavy, barrel-shaped torso of a mascot 
costume, the headless top half of some kind of animal. His arms were 
trapped inside the torso section, pinned to his sides in an unnatural 
position by some sort of framework. The arms of the costume hung limp 
and empty from the sides. His legs stuck out incongruously from the 
bottom, looking small and thin in contrast. He could feel other things 
inside the mascot’s torso, pieces of metal that pressed against his back 
and poked into him. He could feel raw patches on his skin, and he could 
not tell if the thing he felt trickling down his back was sweat or blood. 
Something was pressing into the sides of his neck; when he turned his 
head, whatever it was dug into his skin. The costume’s fur was dirty and 
matted, a faded color that might once have been a bright blue but was 
now only a bluish approximation of beige. He could see a head of the 
same color a few feet away, sitting on a cardboard box, and with a flicker 
of curiosity he looked at it, but he could not tell what it was supposed to 
be. It looked as if someone had been told “make an animal” and had 
done just that, careful not to make it look like any specific type of 
animal. He looked around the room, comprehension dawning. He knew 
where he was. The piles of fabric had faces. They were empty costumes, 
mascots from the restaurant, deflated, collapsed, and staring empty-eyed 
at him, like they wanted something. He looked around, trying to assess calmly, though his heart was 
fluttering alarmingly in his chest. The room was small, a single bulb 
overhead lighting it dimly and flickering ever so slightly, giving the 
place a disquieting impression of movement. A small metal desk fan, 
brown with rust, gently oscillated in the corner, but the air it blew was 
heavy with the stale sweat of costumes left unwashed for a decade. 
Carlton was too hot; the air felt too thick. He tried to stand, but without 
his arms he could not brace himself, and as he moved he felt another 
violent wave of nausea, and a sudden, angry surge of pain in his head. “I wouldn’t do that,” a raspy voice muttered. Carlton looked around, seeing no one, then the door opened. It moved slowly, and somewhere 
beneath his terror Carlton felt a twinge of impatience. “Who is it? Let me out of this!” he said in panicked desperation. The door squealed like an injured animal as it glided open, almost of 
its own accord, the frame empty. After a moment’s pause, a yellow 
rabbit poked its head around the corner, its ears tilting at a jaunty angle. 
It was still for a moment, almost posing, then it came in with a bouncing 
walk, graceful, with none of the stiff, mechanistic movements of the 
animatronic animal. It did a small dance step, spun, and took a deep bow. 
Then it reached up and took off its own head, revealing the man inside 
the costume. “I guess I shouldn’t be surprised,” Carlton said, his nerves triggering 
an automatic wisecrack. “Never trust a rabbit, I say.” It didn’t make 
sense, it wasn’t funny, but the words were coming out of his mouth 
without any input from his brain. He still felt sick, his head still ached, 
but he had a sudden, visceral clarity: This is what happened to Michael 
You are what happened to Michael “Don’t speak,” Dave said. Carlton opened his mouth to answer back, 
but the smart remark died on his tongue when he saw the guard’s face. 
He had seemed somehow faded when they met, depleted and ineffectual. 
But now, as he stood over Carlton in his absurd-looking rabbit costume, 
he looked different. His face was the same, technically—his gaunt 
features and sunken eyes, his skin that seemed to have worn thin, ready 
to snap from strain—but now there was a mean, undeniable strength in 
him, a rodentine vitality that Carlton recognized. It had occurred to Carlton years before that there were two types of 
nasty people: There were the obvious ones, like his sixth-grade English 
teacher who yelled and threw erasers, or the kid in fifth grade who 
picked fights with smaller children after school. That type was easy, their 
offenses public, brutal, and undeniable. But then there was the other kind 
of petty tyrant, those who grew spiteful with their small scraps of power, 
feeling more and more abused by the year—by family who did not 
appreciate them, by neighbors who slighted them in imperceptible ways, 
by a world that left them, somehow, lacking something essential. Before him stood someone who had spent so much of his life fighting 
like a cornered rat that he had taken on the mande of bitter sadism as an 
integral part of himself. He would strike out against others and revel in 
their pain, feeling righteously that the world owed him his cruel 
pleasures. The guard’s face, with its malevolent delight in Carlton’s pain 
and fear, was one of the most terrifying things he had ever seen. He 
opened and closed his mouth, then, valiantly, found his voice. “What kind of a name for a serial killer is Dave?” he said. It came out 
as a trembling croak, lacking even the echo of bravado. Dave did not 
seem to hear him. “I told you not to move, Carlton,” he said calmly. He set the rabbit’s 
head down on a plastic crate and began fiddling with the fastenings at the 
back of his neck. “It’s not an order, it’s a friendly warning. Do you know 
what I’ve put you in?” “Your girlfriend?” Carlton said, and Dave made a thin curve of a 
smile. “You’re amusing,” he said with distaste. “But no. You’re not wearing 
a costume, Carlton, not precisely. You see, these suits were designed for 
two purposes: to be worn by men like me”—he gestured fluidly toward 
himself, with something that might have been pride—“and to be used as 
working animatronics like the ones you see on the stage. Do you 
understand?” Carlton nodded, or began to, but Dave’s raised eyebrow stopped him. “I said don’t move,” he said. The neck of his costume came open, and 
he began to undo a second fastening at his back as he talked. “You see, 
all of the animatronic parts in that suit are still in it; they are simply held 
back by spring locks, like this.” Dave went to the pile of costumes and selected one, bringing the 
fuzzy green torso, headless, over to Carlton. He held out the costume, 
waggling two twisted pieces of metal that were attached to the sides of 
the neck. “These are spring locks,” he said, bringing the piece of metal so close 
to Carlton’s face he almost could not focus his eyes on it. “Watch.” He 
did something, touched some piece of the lock so imperceptibly that Carlton could not see what he had done, and it snapped shut with a sound 
like a backfiring car. Carlton stiffened, suddenly taking the order not to 
move deathly seriously. “That’s a very old costume, one of the first ones Henry made. You 
can trip these spring locks very, very easily if you don’t know what 
you’re doing,” Dave went on. “It takes almost no movement at all.” “Henry?” Carlton said, trying to focus on what he was being told. He 
could still hear the snap, as if it had lodged in his head like a song that 
kept repeating. I’m going to die, he thought for the first time since 
waking. This man will kill me, I will die, and then what? Will anyone 
even know? He set his jaw and met Dave’s eyes. “Who’s Henry?” “Henry,” Dave repeated. “Your friend Charlie’s father.” He looked 
surprised. “Did you not know that he made this place?” “Oh, right, well,” Carlton said confusedly. “I just always thought of 
him as ‘Charlie’s dad.’ ” “Of course,” Dave said, the kind of polite murmur people made when 
they didn’t care. “Well, that’s one of his first suits,” he said, gesturing at 
Carlton. “And if you trigger those spring locks, two things will happen: 
First, all the locks will snap right into you, making deep cuts all over 
your body, and a split second later all the animatronic parts they’ve been 
holding back, all that sharp steel and hard plastic, will instantly be driven 
into your body. You will die, but it will be slow. You’ll feel your organs 
punctured, the suit will grow wet with your blood, and you will know 
you’re dying for long, long minutes. You’ll try to scream, but you will be 
unable to. Your vocal cords will be severed, and your lungs will fill with 
your own blood until you drown in it.” There was a faraway look in his 
eyes, and Carlton knew with chilling certainty that Dave wasn’t 
predicting. He was reminiscing. “How—” Carlton’s voice broke, and he tried again. “How do you 
know that?” he said, managing a raspy whisper. Dave met his eyes and 
smiled widely. “How do you think?” He set down the costume he was holding and 
reached up to undo the final piece of his own. It took time; Carlton 
watched for several minutes as Dave romanced whatever mechanisms lay under the collar. He took the costume torso off with a flourish, and 
Carlton made an involuntary sound, a helpless and frightened mewl. Dave had been shirtless under the costume, and now his bare chest 
was clearly visible even in the dim, flickering light. His skin was 
horribly scarred, with raised white lines that scored his flesh in a 
symmetrical pattern, each side of his body mirroring the other. Dave saw 
him looking and laughed, a sudden, happy sound. Carlton shivered at it. 
Dave raised his arms out from his body and turned slowly in a circle, 
giving Carlton ample time to see that the scars were everywhere, 
covering his back like a faint lace shirt, stretching to the waist of the 
rabbit pants as if they continued all the way down. On the back of his 
neck, where they were largest and most visible, two scars like parallel 
lines were etched from the nape of his neck all the way up to his scalp, 
disappearing into his hair. Carlton tried to swallow. His mouth was so 
dry he could not have spoken, even if there had been anything to say. Dave smiled unpleasantly. “Don’t move,” he said again. 
“He’s here; he has to be here!” Marla cried, staring despairingly at the 
door to Freddy’s. She was clasping and unclasping her hands, the 
knuckles going white. Charlie watched her helplessly. There was nothing 
to say. The door was no longer covered in chains; instead it was simply 
no longer a door. It had been welded over; the metal was melted 
seamlessly into the frame, and the hinges were gone, covered in crude, 
patchy solder. They all stared, not fully able to comprehend what they 
were looking at. Charlie shifted her feet. She had stepped in a puddle as 
they hurried from the car, and now her shoes and socks were soaked and 
freezing. It seemed unforgivable to be focused on her own discomfort in 
such a moment, but she could not stop her attention from drifting to it. “This is insane,” Marla said, her mouth agape. “Who does this?” She 
threw up her hands in frustration. “Who does something like that?” She 
was almost shouting. “Someone did that! Someone welded this shut. 
What if Jason is in there?” Marla put her hands over her face. Jessica and Lamar stepped 
forward to comfort her, but she waved them away. “I’m fine,” she said tighdy, but she did not move, still staring at the 
place in the wall that had once been a door. She looked smaller, lesser; 
the panicked energy that had been driving her was gone, leaving her 
empty and without purpose. She looked at Charlie, ignoring the others, 
and Charlie met her eyes uncomfortably. “What do we do?” Marla asked. Charlie shook her head. “I don’t know, Marla,” she said uselessly. “If he’s in there, we have 
to get him out. There has to be a way.” “There has to be another way in,” John agreed, though he sounded 
surer than Charlie felt. “Freddy’s had windows, a service door, right? 
There must have been fire exits. There has to be something!” “Stop!” Marla cried, and they all froze in place. She was pointing at 
the floor. “What is it?” Charlie asked, coming up next to her. “It’s Jason’s footprint,” Marla said. “Look, you can see the imprint; 
it’s those silly shoes he spent a year’s allowance on.” Charlie looked. Marla was right; there was a muddy footprint about 
Jason’s size, still fresh. Marla’s face was alive again, fiery and 
determined. “He must have just been here,” Marla said. “Look, you can see the 
tracks turn and leave again. The door must have been already welded 
when he got here. He’s probably still here somewhere. Come on!” Jason’s tracks were heading farther down the alley, into the darkness, 
and the group crouched low to the ground, following his trail. Charlie 
hung back, not really helping but keeping an eye on the bobbing 
flashlight ahead. There was something she was forgetting, something she 
should know. Something about Freddy’s. Noticing that she was apart, 
John let the others move ahead. “You okay?” he asked in a low voice, and Charlie shook her head. “I’m fine,” she said. “Go ahead.” He waited for her to say more, but 
she was staring ahead into the dark. Another way in. “Found it!” Jessica’s voice pierced the dark, and Charlie came back to herself and jogged to catch up to the others. Lamar had the flashlight 
again, and he was aiming it at an air vent close to the ground. The vent was old and rusty, and its covering lay flat on the ground 
amid scattered footprints and clumps of mud. “Jason, what are you doing?” Marla gasped and knelt beside the vent. 
“What are you thinking?” There was an edge to her voice, something 
teetering between panic and relief. “We have to go after him,” she said. Charlie watched, dubious, but said nothing. It was John who spoke 
up. “It’s too small,” he said. “I don’t think any of us will fit.” Marla looked down at herself, then around at the others one by one, 
calculating. “Jessica,” she said decisively. “Come on.” “What?” Jessica looked to the side as if there might be another of her. 
“I don’t think I’ll fit, Marla.” “You’re the skinniest,” Marla said shortly. “Just try, okay?” Jessica nodded and went to the vent, kneeling in the muddy concrete 
that was the alley’s floor. She studied the hole in the wall for a moment 
and tried to squeeze in, but her shoulders barely cleared the space, and 
after a moment she pulled back out, out of breath. “Marla, I can’t fit, I’m sorry,” she said. “You can fit!” Marla said. “Please, Jessica.” Jessica looked back at the others, and when Charlie saw her face it 
was almost white, harshly expressionless. She’s claustrophobic, Charlie 
thought, but before she could speak, Jessica was back at the air vent, 
twisting herself, trying again to fit. “Please,” Marla said again, and Jessica shot back out like something 
had bitten her. “I can’t, Marla,” she said, her breathing shallow and fast, as if she 
had been running full-out. “I don’t fit!” “There has to be another way in.” Charlie stepped in, reaching her 
arm between Marla and Jessica as though breaking up a fight. Charlie closed her eyes, trying again to remember. She pictured the 
restaurant, trying to see it not as they had the last few days, but as it had been years before. The lights were bright; it was full of people. “It used 
to get hot, stuffy,” she said. “In summer it smelled like pizza and old 
french-fry grease and sweaty kids, and my dad would say ...” That’s it. 
“He would say, ‘Whose brilliant idea was it to put a skylight in a closet?’ 
” she finished triumphantly, relieved. She could picture the little supply 
room with the open roof. She and Sammy would sneak away and sit in 
there for a few minutes, enjoying the small stream of fresh air that 
filtered down from outside. “So that’s it. Let’s get to the roof,” John said, breaking Charlie’s drift 
into memory. “What roof?” Marla said, studying the top of the closed hall. She was 
no longer in a full-blown panic, reassured by evidence that Jason was 
still alive, but her anxiety was still palpable. Her glance darted constantly 
around the little group, as if her little brother might suddenly appear from 
the shadows. “It’s been covered over, like everything else,” Lamar chimed in. “Maybe not,” Charlie said. “The roof of the mall is pretty high. I bet 
there’s a crawl space, at least.” “A crawl space?” John said excitedly. “You mean a crawl space 
between the roof of Freddy’s and the roof of the mall? Up there?” He 
stared up into the darkness for a moment. “A crawl space?” he repeated, 
his voice a little meeker. Charlie was busy studying the ceiling of the corridor, measuring it in 
her head against what they had seen of the outside of the building. It was 
different—she was sure of it. “This isn’t the roof to the mall. It’s not high enough,” she said, 
feeling a spark of encouragement. She set off briskly down the hall, not 
waiting for the others. They followed, trailing behind her, and the space 
above her suddenly became illuminated as Lamar caught up and cast the 
beam of the flashlight upward. Charlie was going back and forth, looking 
from wall to ceiling and back again while trying to picture the space 
outside. “The ceiling of this hall is probably level with the roof of Freddy’s.” 
Jessica’s voice came from behind Charlie, who startled briefly. She had been so intent on her pursuit she had lost track of her friends. “We have to get up there,” Charlie said, turning back to the group 
expectandy. They looked blankly at her for a second. Then Lamar’s arm 
moved reflexively, like he was about to raise his hand. He caught himself 
and cleared his throat instead. “I hate to point out the obvious, but,” Lamar said, gesturing. About 
ten feet ahead of them, a maintenance ladder rested against the old brick. 
Charlie grinned and hurried to the ladder, waving for John to follow. 
They grabbed it together; it was heavy, metal, and covered with spatters 
of paint, but it was manageable to carry. When Charlie had a firm grip on 
one side of the ladder, she turned her face back to the ceiling, searching. “There is probably a hole, or a hatch, or something,” she said. “A hole, or a hatch, or something?” John echoed with a half smile as 
he lifted the other end of the ladder. “Do you have a better idea? Now come on.” She jerked the ladder 
forward so hard John stumbled and almost fell. They moved slowly. With only one flashlight, they could not see 
where they were going and examine the walls at the same time, so every 
few yards they stopped for Lamar to run the light back and forth across 
the place where the brick wall met the dripping ceiling of the makeshift 
hallway. Though it slowed them down, Charlie was grateful for the 
breaks; the ladder, industrial metal, was heavy. She could have asked the 
others to switch off, but it felt essential somehow that she be part of the 
physical process. She wanted to help. Marla’s agitation was growing as they went, and after a few rounds 
of move-and-scan she started calling Jason’s name softly. “Jason! Jason, can you hear me?” “He’s inside,” John said shortly. “He can’t hear you.” His voice was 
strained with the weight of the ladder—he had the wider end—and he 
sounded almost snappish. Marla glared at him. “You don’t know that.” “Marla, stop it,” Jessica said. “We’re doing everything we can.” Marla didn’t answer. A few minutes later, they came to the end of the 
alley. “So now what?” John said. “I don’t know,” Charlie said, puzzled. “I was positive that we would 
find something.” “Is that the way life usually works for you?” John teased, raising an 
eyebrow at her. From down the hall, Lamar let out a triumphant cry. “Found it!” Marla took off toward him at a run, and Jessica followed a little more 
cautiously behind, wary of obstacles in the dark. Charlie gave John a wink and picked up the ladder again. He hurried 
to lift his side, and they lugged it back the way they came. When Charlie and John caught up to the rest of the group, all three 
were looking up at the ceiling. Charlie mimicked their posture; sure 
enough, there was a square trapdoor, big enough for an adult to pass 
through, its edges barely visible in the darkness. Without speaking, they 
set up the ladder; it was perhaps ten feet high and rose close enough to 
the ceiling to access the door easily. Marla climbed up first as Lamar 
steadied the ladder on one side, Jessica on the other. John and Charlie watched as Marla ascended. “So the trapdoor there ...” John pointed up at it. “The trapdoor of this 
hallway is right next to Freddy’s. That will get us onto the roof of 
Freddy’s, which is under the roof of the mall, in a crawl space. And on 
Freddy’s roof, there’s a skylight, which we will find while crawling 
through the crawl space.” He drew an invisible diagram in the air with 
his finger as he spoke, and his tone was edged with skepticism. Charlie 
did not respond. Marla’s footsteps on the ladder sounded through the 
hall, heavy, tinny thuds that echoed unsteadily all around them. “Once we find the skylight in the crawl space,” John went on, not 
certain if Charlie was even listening, “we are going to drop down 
through the skylight and into Freddy’s, possibly with no way of getting 
back out.” At the top of the ladder, Marla fiddled with something on the ceiling 
that the others could not see, making little mutters of frustration. “Is it locked?” Charlie called up. “Okay, sure,” John said, aware by now that he was talking only to 
himself. “This makes sense.” “The bolt is just stuck,” Marla said. “I need—ha!” A dull snapping 
sound rang out. “Got it!” she cried. She raised her hands over her head 
and pressed upward, and slowly the door opened above her until it tipped 
over and fell with a thud. “So much for sneaking in,” John said drily. “It doesn’t matter,” Charlie said. “We still have to go. Besides, do 
you really think whoever is in there doesn’t know we’re coming?” Above them, Marla was navigating her way up through the door. She 
braced her arms on either side of the space and pushed up off the ladder. 
It swayed dangerously, and Lamar and Jessica clutched it, trying to 
stabilize it, but it was not necessary. Marla was already up and through, 
on the roof. They waited for her to say something. “Marla?” Jessica called finally. “Yeah, I’m fine,” Marla said. “What do you see?” Charlie called. “Throw me the light.” Marla’s arm emerged from the trapdoor, 
flapping impatiently. Lamar got a bit closer and carefully lobbed the 
flashlight up. Marla snatched it out of the air, and immediately the beam 
vanished—the light had gone out. In the crawl space, Marla sat in the dark trying to fix the flashlight. 
She shook it, rattling the batteries, and flipped the switch on and off 
uselessly. As she unscrewed the top of the light and blew into the battery 
cage, she felt a rising panic. Since realizing Jason had gone, Marla’s 
entire being had been focused on him. It was only now, alone in the 
darkness, that she began to think about the danger she herself might be 
in. She screwed the top back onto the flashlight, and it came on instantly. 
The light flashed in her eyes, briefly clouding her vision. She pointed it 
away, then carefully swept it in a circle around her, revealing a sprawling 
void in all directions. It was the roof of Freddy Fazbear’s Pizza. “What do you see?” Charlie called again. “You were right: There’s space, but not much. It’s so dark, and it 
smells awful up here.” Her voice sounded shaky even to her own ears, and suddenly she was desperate not to be alone in this place. “Hurry, 
don’t leave me up here by myself!” “We’re coming,” Jessica called up to her. “Me next,” Charlie said, stepping forward. The ladder was rusty, and 
it made squeaking complaints as she climbed, protesting her weight as 
she moved from step to step. But it felt sturdy, and quickly she reached 
the trapdoor and did as Marla had done. She stood on the top step so she 
was head and shoulders through the door, braced her arms on either side, 
and pushed off the ladder, almost jumping, to land on Freddy’s roof. 
There was not room to stand, scarcely room to sit—the space between 
the restaurant’s roof and the mall’s roof above it was less than a yard. 
Something was ratding above them, as if stones were falling overhead, 
and it took Charlie a moment to realize that it was the rain thundering on 
the uninsulated tin. Water dripped in on her head, and when she looked 
up she saw a place where the metal’s seams had not been joined, two 
corrugated sheets simply lined up next to each other, allied by 
circumstance. She wiped her palms on her jeans; the shingles of the roof 
were wet, and her hands were covered in grit, dust, and something slick 
and more unpleasant. She looked toward Marla, who was a few feet away. “Here, come on. Get out of their way,” Marla said, motioning her 
over, and Charlie hurried on her hands and knees. Jessica’s head 
appeared in the trapdoor, and carefully she made her way up into the 
crawl space. Safely on the roof, Jessica looked around as if gauging 
something. Concerned, Charlie remembered her fear in the air vent, but 
Jessica took a long, deep breath. “I can handle this,” she said, though she did not sound as if she 
believed her own words. A moment later Lamar was next to them. He 
quickly reclaimed the flashlight and aimed it back toward the trapdoor. 
After a moment, John scrambled up into the crawl space—and something 
banged loudly beneath them, the sound repeating. Everyone but John 
startled at the sound. “Sorry,” he said. “That was the ladder.” “Charlie, which way?” Marla asked. “Oh.” Charlie closed her eyes again, retraced her steps as she had 
while they’d searched for a way in. “Straight across, I think,” she said. 
“As long as we get to the far side, we’ll find it.” Without waiting for 
responses, she started crawling in the direction she thought was right. A 
second later, light appeared ahead of her. “Thanks,” she called back softly to Lamar, who was steadying the 
flashlight, trying to anticipate where Charlie would go. “I don’t have anything else to do,” he whispered. The crawl space was wide. It should have felt spacious, but there 
were support beams and pipes strewn at random, intersecting the space or 
running across the roof below them so that it was a little like navigating a 
very cramped forest, ducking vines and climbing over fallen trees. The 
roof of Freddy’s had a shallow upward slope; they would have to go 
down again once they reached the middle. The shingles beneath their 
hands and feet were soggy in a deep, swollen way that suggested they 
had not been truly dry in years, and a moldy smell rose from them. Every 
once in a while Charlie wiped her hands on her pants, knowing they 
would only be clean for a moment. From time to time, she thought she 
heard something skitter by, sounds a little too far away to be coming 
from their group, but she ignored them. They have more right to be here 
than we do, she thought, though she was not certain what species “they” 
might be. The roof above them followed a bizarre pattern, sloping up and down 
without regard to the roof beneath, so that at one point it opened four feet 
above their heads, then at another plunged downward so close that it 
grazed their backs, forcing them to duck their heads and wriggle 
awkwardly through. Jessica was right behind Charlie, and from time to 
time she could hear her friend make soft, frightened noises, but every 
time she looked back, Jessica just nodded, stone-faced. They continued 
until they reached the wall that marked the edge of the roof. “Okay,” Charlie called, half turning behind her. “It should be near 
here. Let’s spread out and look.” “No, wait. What’s that?” Marla said, pointing. Charlie could not see 
what Marla had spotted, but she followed the direction until she came to it. The skylight was a flat glass pane in the roof framed like a small 
window, a single panel with no visible handles, hinges, or latches. They 
leaned over it, trying to see into the room below, but the glass was too 
covered in grime for anything to show through. John reached forward 
and tried to clean it with his sleeve. He came away with the arm of his 
shirt black, but it had done no good—at least half the dirt was on the 
other side, and the skylight was still opaque with filth. “It’s just a closet; it’s okay,” Charlie said. “But is anyone in the closet?” Lamar said. “It doesn’t matter,” said Marla. “We don’t have a choice.” Everyone looked at Charlie, who thoughtfully studied the skylight. “It swings in,” she said. “You pull down on this side”—she pointed 
—“and it swings. There’s a latch on the inside, right there.” She touched 
the side of the skylight, thinking. “Maybe if we—” She pushed on it, and 
it gave way almost instantly, jolting her with a sudden, panicked sense of 
falling, even though her weight was solidly on the roof. “That’s kind of narrow,” John said. The skylight did not open all the 
way; the glass just tilted inward a little, barely enough for a person to slip 
through. “I didn’t build it,” Charlie said, slightly irritated. “This is it, so if 
you’re going, go.” Without waiting for a response, she swung her legs over the sill and 
lowered herself down, dangling for a moment in the dark. Closing her 
eyes and hoping the floor was not as far away as she remembered, she let 
go and fell. She landed. The shock of impact ran through her legs, but it passed 
quickly. “Bend your knees when you land!” she called up as she got out of the 
way. Marla dropped through, and Charlie went to the door, trying to find 
a light switch. Her fingers stumbled across the switch, and she flipped it 
up. The old fluorescent lights clicked and buzzed, and then slowly a dim 
and unreliable glow filled the space. “All right,” she whispered with a thrill of excitement. She turned around, and as something brushed her face, she had a fleeting impression 
of big plastic eyes and broken yellow teeth. She screamed and leaped 
back, clutching for balance at shelves that swayed as she grabbed them. 
The head she had touched, an uncovered wire frame for a costume with 
nothing but eyes and teeth to decorate it, wobbled precariously on the 
shelf beside Charlie, then fell to the ground. Her heart still pounding, 
Charlie brushed at herself roughly as if she were covered in spiderwebs, 
her legs unsteady as she moved back and forth with agitation. The head 
rolled across the floor, then came to rest at her feet, looking up at her 
with its cheerful, sinister smile. Charlie jerked back from the ghastly grin, and something grabbed her 
from behind. She tried to yank free, but she was stuck, a pair of metal 
arms wrapped around her. The bodiless limbs clung to her shirt, their 
hinges biting into the cloth, and as she tried to wrest herself away her 
hair was caught, too, tangling her deeper into the wire until she felt like 
she would be consumed. Charlie screamed again, and the arms reached 
out farther, seeming to grow as she struggled against them. She fought 
back with all her strength, fueled by terror and a base, frantic fury that 
this thing would hurt her. “Charlie, stop!” Marla cried. “Charlie!” Marla grabbed her arm, trying to stop her frantic movement, using 
one hand to disengage Charlie’s hair from the metal frame. “Charlie, it’s not real, it’s just ... robot parts,” she said, but Charlie 
pulled away from Marla, still in a panic, and smacked her head into a 
cardboard box. She cried out, startled, as the box overturned. Eyes the 
size of fists fell to the ground like rain, showering down with a clatter 
and rolling everywhere, covering the floor. Charlie stumbled and stepped 
on one of the hard plastic orbs, sending her feet out from under her. She 
grabbed at a shelf, missed, and fell on her back, landing with a thud that 
took the wind out of her. Stunned and gasping, she looked up. There were eyes everywhere, 
not just on the floor, but in the walls. They looked out at her from the 
dark, deep-socketed, shadowed eyes peering down from the shelves all 
around her. She stared, unable to look away. “Charlie, come on.” Marla was there, kneeling anxiously over her. 
She grabbed Charlie’s arm again and pulled until Charlie was upright. 
Charlie still did not have her breath back, and as she inhaled thinly, she 
began to cry. Marla hugged her tightly, and Charlie let her. “It’s okay, it’s okay,” Marla whispered as Charlie tried to calm 
herself, looking around the storeroom for distraction. It's not real, she told herself. They were in a storeroom, just a closet, 
and these were all spare parts. The air was thick with dust, and it tickled 
at her nose and throat as it poured off the shelves restlessly. The rest of 
the group dropped through the skylight one by one; John came last, 
landing in the middle of the room with a thump. Jessica sneezed. “You okay?” John said as soon as he saw Charlie. “Yeah, I’m fine.” Charlie disentangled herself from Marla and 
crossed her arms, still collecting herself. “You know we can’t get back up through there,” John said, looking 
up at the skylight. “We just need something to stand on,” Charlie said. “Or we can 
climb a shelf.” Jessica shook her head. “No, look at the way it’s opened.” Charlie looked. The skylight opened downward, so the pane of glass 
sloped in at a gentle angle, just enough to have let them through. To get 
out, they would have to— “Oh,” she said. There would be no getting out. However close they 
got to the skylight, the pane of glass would always be in the way, 
sticking out into the precise space they needed to pass through. If anyone 
tried to get a grip on the roof, they would have to lean so far over the 
glass that they would fall from the ladder. “We might be able to break the glass,” John started. “But the metal 
frame is going to be dangerous to climb over, even more dangerous with 
shards of broken glass.” He fell silent and thought it through again, his 
face grim. “It doesn’t matter,” Charlie said. “We’ll find another way out. Let’s 
start looking.” They peered cautiously out into the hallway. Lamar had turned off 
the flashlight, but it was easy enough to see their surroundings now with 
the light from the closet seeping into the hall. At least nothing’s dripping 
from the ceiling, Charlie thought, wiping her hands on her pants again. 
The floor was black-and-white tile, as glossy as if it had just been 
polished. There were children’s drawings on the walls, rustling with the 
air from the open skylight. Charlie remained motionless, more than 
aware of how much noise she had just made. Does it know we’re here? 
she wondered, realizing as she did that by “it” she meant the building 
itself. It felt as if Freddy’s was conscious of their presence, as if it 
reacted to them like a living, breathing thing. She reached out to brush 
her fingers against its wall, tracing lightly as if she were petting it. The 
plaster was still and cold, inanimate, and Charlie pulled her hand back. 
She wondered what Freddy’s would do. They wound around one corner, then another, and then stopped at the 
entrance to Pirate’s Cove, hanging back from the doorway. Pirate’s 
Cove. I have my bearings again. Charlie gazed at the little stage, no 
longer lit, and the curtain that hid its sole performer. A few small lights flickered on the sides of the stage then came on, 
illuminating the space with a pale-gray glow. Charlie looked around and 
saw Lamar standing by the doorway with his hand on a switch. “We don’t have a choice,” he said defensively, gesturing to his 
flashlight; its light was failing. Charlie nodded resignedly, and Lamar 
switched off the dying flashlight. “I want to take a look in this control room,” Marla said, pointing to 
the small door nearby. “Lamar, come with me. The rest of you try the 
other one. If we each take one set of cameras, we can see the whole 
restaurant. If Jason’s in this place, we’ll see him.” “I don’t think we should split up,” Charlie said. “Wait,” said Lamar. He passed John the dead light, freeing his hands. 
From his pockets he produced two walkie-talkies; they were large, black, 
boxy things Charlie had only seen attached to police officers’ belts. “Where did you get those?” she asked. Lamar smiled mysteriously. “I’m afraid I can’t tell you that,” he said. “He stole them from Carlton’s house,” Jessica stated plainly, taking 
one from his hand and examining it. “No, they were in the garage. Mrs. Burke told me where to find them. 
They work, I tested.” Mrs. Burke knew we would come here? Charlie thought. Marla just 
nodded; maybe she had already known, or maybe nothing could surprise 
her anymore. “Come on,” Marla said and walked between the tables in front of 
Pirate’s Cove, careful not to disturb anything. Lamar leaned over Jessica 
to show her how to use the walkie-talkie. “It’s this button,” he said, indicating it, and then he took off after 
Marla. After a startled moment, the rest of them followed. Something 
clutched in Charlie’s stomach, the reality that both Jason and Carlton 
might truly be in danger seizing her. It was not that she had forgotten, but 
while they were outside, trying to solve the puzzles, it was possible to 
gain some distance from what was happening. She watched Marla 
stalking toward the control room with a bleak authority. Marla crouched 
at the small door before turning to Charlie. “Go,” she said, nodding toward the hall that led to the main dining 
area. They went, Charlie taking the lead as they crept down the hall, 
heading for the main stage. 
Marla looked at Lamar, who nodded. She grasped the doorknob, 
clenched her teeth, and forced the door open all in one motion. “Marla!” Marla jumped, barely suppressing a scream. Jason was huddled in the 
space beneath the monitors, his eyes wide and terrified, staring at the 
door like a frightened mouse. “Jason!” Marla crawled into the control room and swooped him into 
her arms. Jason hugged her back, for once grateful, even desperate, for 
her intense affection. She held on tight, crushing him to her until he 
began to worry that he might, in fact, be crushed. From outside Marla’s consuming embrace, Jason heard brief static. 
He looked over Marla’s shoulder to see Lamar studying the walkie- 
talkie, preparing to speak into it. “Jessica? We found him. He’s okay,” he said. More static and words Jason did not quite catch came from the radio. 
The first wave of relief had worn off, and his ribs were starting to hurt. “Marla?” He tapped her on the shoulder, first gently, then harder. 
“Marla!” She let him go but took hold of his shoulders for a moment, peering 
into his eyes as if to be sure it was really him, that he had not been 
somehow replaced, or irrevocably damaged. “Marla, cool it,” he said as casually as he could, managing to keep his 
voice from shaking. Marla let go of his shoulders, giving him a playful 
shove, and began to scold him as she pulled him the rest of the way out 
from under the control panel. “Jason, how could you—” Marla was interrupted as Lamar descended 
the rest of the way into the small room. “Through the vent? Really?” Lamar laughed. “You could have been killed, crawling through the air duct like that!” 
Marla added, grasping his shoulders. Jason fought free, flailing his arms until she let him go. “Okay!” he exclaimed. “Everybody missed me, good, glad to know 
I’m important.” “You are important,” Marla said fiercely, and Jason rolled his eyes 
theatrically. The little room lit up as Lamar flipped a switch, bringing the screens 
to life. Marla looked at Jason thoughtfully, then turned her attention to 
the security cameras. “Okay, let’s see what we can see.” Lamar looked from screen to screen. The top middle screen showed 
the main dining room and the stage, and as they watched, Charlie, 
Jessica, and John appeared, crossing the room in a V formation, Charlie 
at the front. “Look,” Marla said suddenly, pointing to the screen at the lower 
right. “Look.” The night guard was there; though they could not make out his face, 
his baggy uniform and sagging shoulders told them that it was the same 
man. He was in the hall near the restaurant’s entrance, walking past the 
party rooms and the arcade with a slow, purposeful gait. “Lamar, warn them,” Marla ordered urgently. Lamar spoke into the walkie-talkie. “Jessica, the guard is somewhere 
around there. Hide!” There was no response from the radio, but onscreen the group of 
three froze. Then, as one, they made for the control room under the stage, 
squeezing in and closing themselves in just as the guard appeared in the 
doorway. 

Voices. People moving around. Carlton did not allow himself to sigh in relief—a rescue wouldn’t do 
him any good if he got his insides punctured by a hundred tiny robot 
parts first. Instead he continued with what he had been doing, inching his 
way across the floor and into the view of the security camera that 
perched near the ceiling just above the door. Each movement was so 
scarce it felt like nothing, but he had been doing this for over an hour, 
and he was almost, almost there. He kept his breathing steady, using his 
trapped hands to lift his body a tiny bit, move to the side, and let himself 
down again, just a little farther to the right. His fingers were cramping 
and his head still ached, but he kept going, relentless. Although he was still afraid, still painfully aware of how easily he 
could trigger his own death, at some point the fear had dulled, or perhaps 
he had just become accustomed to it. Panic could not last forever; 
eventually the adrenaline had run out. Now, at least, the need for slow, 
precise movement took precedence over everything else. It was all there 
was. Carlton made one final movement and stopped, closing his eyes for 
a moment. He had made it. Can ’t stop now. The others were here. It had to be them, and if they were looking for 
him, they would check the cameras. He stared up into the lens, willing himself to be seen. He could not wave or jump up and down. He tried 
rocking back and forth a little, but no matter how stiffly he held himself, 
he felt the press of spring locks, ready to give. He bit his lip in 
frustration. “Just see me!” he whispered to no one, but all at once he felt as if he 
had been heard, felt the inexplicable sense of someone else’s presence in 
the room. His heart began to race again, the adrenaline that had given out 
finding its second wind. Carefully, slowly, he looked around, until something caught his eye. It was only one of the costumes, slumped empty in the shadows, half- 
hidden in the corner of the room. It was motionless, but its face was 
pointed directly at him, staring. As Carlton looked back, he realized that 
deep within the recesses of the costume’s eye sockets were two tiny 
glints of light. He felt little muscles twitch, a restrained shudder running 
through his body, not quite enough to get him killed. He did not look 
away. As Carlton held the creature’s gaze, he felt himself begin to calm. His 
heart’s pounding eased, and his breath grew even. It was as though 
suddenly he was safe, though he knew the suit he was wearing was still 
only one flinch, one startled jump, from killing him. Carlton kept looking 
at those two pinpoints of light, and as he did, he heard a voice. In a 
gasping instant, all the air was sucked from his lungs. As the voice 
spoke, that voice he would have known anywhere, that voice he would 
have given anything to hear again, Carlton began to weep, using all his 
will to keep his body from shaking. The eyes in the dark were intent on 
his face as the voice went on, speaking secrets to Carlton in the ringing 
silence, telling him things that he dreaded, things that someone had to 
hear. 
The screens all lost their pictures and flipped to static. “Hey!” Marla cried. She banged against the side of a monitor, and the 
image lurched, distorted, then sputtered and went out again. She hit it 
again, and with another spasm of static the image slowly cleared; as it 
resolved, the stage appeared. “Something’s wrong,” Lamar said, and all three leaned forward, 
trying to get a better look. “Bonnie,” Jason said in a grave tone. “Bonnie,” Marla echoed, looking at Lamar with alarm. “Where’s 
Bonnie?” Lamar hit the button on the walkie-talkie. “Charlie,” he said urgently. “Charlie, don’t leave the control room.” In the control room under the stage, Charlie and Jessica peered at the 
monitors, scanning for signs of life. “It’s too dark; I can’t see anything 
on these,” Jessica complained. “There!” Charlie said, pointing. Jessica blinked. “I can’t see anything,” she insisted. “It’s Carlton, right there. I’m going to get him.” Not waiting for a 
response, Charlie crawled toward the exit. “Charlie, wait,” John said, but she was already out the door. It 
slammed shut behind her, and all three of them heard the dull metal thud 
of the drop lock falling into place. “Charlie!” John yelled again, but she 
was already gone. “It’s bolted shut,” John grunted as he pulled on the door. The walkie- 
talkie sputtered, and Lamar’s voice came choppily from the little box. “Ch-lie, don’t leave—r-m.” Jessica and John exchanged a glance, and 
John picked up the radio. “Too late,” he said, looking to Jessica as he lowered the walkie- 
talkie. 
Charlie made her way unsteadily between chairs, but after only moments 
she realized she had gotten herself turned around. The lighting had 
changed; now a single blinding blue light was strobing on and off above 
the stage. Over and over, the room flashed with a blinding burst, like 
lightning, then was instantly dark again. Charlie covered her eyes, trying 
to remember what she had bumped into first. Metal chairs and foil party 
hats pulsed like beacons in the dark with each burst of light, and 
Charlie’s head began to throb. She squinted, trying to orient herself, but beyond the tables 
surrounding her, all she could see were a thousand afterimages burned 
into her retinas. She had no idea which way to go to find Carlton. She 
leaned against a nearby chair and pressed her hand tightly over her 
forehead. A table screeched against the floor briefly, and Charlie knew that it 
hadn’t been her. She turned around, but the light had gone dark. When it 
flashed again she was looking directly at the stage—where there should 
have been three sets of eyes, she saw only two. Freddy and Chica stared 
down at her, their plastic gazes catching the light, twinkling with the 
strobe. Their heads seemed to follow her as she moved along the table. Bonnie was gone. Suddenly she felt exposed, all at once noticing just how many places 
there were in the open room for something to hide, just how visible she 
was to anyone—anything—that might be watching. She thought briefly 
of the little control room she had just left and felt a pang of regret. 
Coming out here might have been very stupid Another screech sounded, and she whirled around to see the table 
behind her moving slowly away. She turned to run, but she slammed into 
something before she could take a step. She jerked up her hands in the 
darkness to shield herself and touched matted fur. The strobe threw its 
light out again, and this time garbled noise blared from the gaping mouth 
in front of her. Bonnie. Bonnie stood only inches from her, his mouth 
opening and closing rapidly and his eyes rolling wildly in his head. 
Charlie jerked away, then backed up slowly. The rabbit did not try to 
follow, just continued his bizarre and silent incantation, his eyes 
aimlessly ricocheting in his head. Her foot caught on the leg of a metal 
folding chair; she fell back, landing hard on her bottom. She started to 
crawl, staying low, hurrying to get away from Bonnie. A spotlight 
flashed from the stage, this one clearly aimed at her. She raised her hand 
to see who was there, but the light blinded her. All she could make out 
were two sets of following eyes. Charlie screamed and scrambled to her feet. She took off running, not 
looking back, and made it across the room and to the hallway that led to 
Pirate’s Cove. She ducked into the bathroom along its wall. The door 
echoed when it shut behind her; the room was empty, with nothing but 
three sinks and three stalls. Only one of the fluorescent lights was on, 
and just barely, only enough to color the room dark gray instead of black. 
The metal walls of the stall dividers looked flimsy, and Charlie had a 
sudden vision of Bonnie, larger than life, grabbing the metal frame with 
his paws and ripping it up from the ground, the bolts tearing right out of 
the floor. She banished the thought and ran into the farthest stall from the 
door, slipping the lock—so small it looked almost delicate—into place. 
She sat on top of the toilet tank, her feet pulled up onto the seat and her 
back pressed against the blue tile wall of the bathroom. In the empty room, Charlie could hear her own breath echoing. She forced it to slow 
and closed her eyes, telling herself to be silent, to hide. 
“Charlie?” John was still pounding on the little door of the control room. 
“Charlie! What’s going on out there?” Jessica sat quietly, still rattled from the screams and crashes outside. “She can take care of herself,” John said, easing his grip on the door. “Yeah,” Jessica said. He did not turn around to look at her. “We have to get out of here,” John said. He rattled the door again— 
the top swayed a little as he pulled, but the bottom was stuck fast. He 
hunched down farther. There was a lock, a deadbolt that dropped straight 
into the floor. The latch to pull it open had broken off long ago, leaving 
only a jagged ledge so thin he could scarcely get his fingers around it. As 
he yanked it upward, it cut into his fingers, leaving thin red lines. The 
bolt stayed fast in place. “Jessica, you try,” he said, turning to look at her. Her eyes were on 
the wall of televisions; they were all showing static, but every now and 
then one flashed a picture. “Never mind,” John said. “Keep watching.” 
He bent his head again and went back to the deadbolt. In the bathroom, Charlie was silent. She paid attention to each breath she 
took, each inhale and exhale a slow, deliberate process. She had tried 
meditating once; she had hated it, but now the intense focus on her 
breathing was calming. I guess I just needed the right motivation, she 
thought. Like staying alive. The stalls rattled briefly, and there was a 
distant booming sound that went on for several seconds. It’s storming 
outside. She kept her eyes trained on the floor. The light overhead was so dim 
it scarcely illuminated her stall. She held her breath. The light flickered 
and let out a brief hum, then was silent. The toilet tank she sat on felt 
unstable; she scooted to the edge of it to quietly let her foot down. Just as 
the tip of her shoe touched the tile, the wide bathroom doors opened with a thunderous bang. Without thinking she jerked her foot up, and the lid of the porcelain 
tank clanged like pots clattering together. She held herself perfectly still, 
her shoe suspended in the air, then carefully pulled her foot back into 
place on top of the toilet seat. That was too loud, she thought. Carefully, 
she leaned forward and reached up with one hand to grasp the stall 
divider. She pulled herself up to stand slowly, the toilet seat rocking on 
its hinges beneath her feet. She peered out over the top at the two stalls next to her. It was too 
dark to see beyond the metal stalls, and the whole row of them swayed 
gently from her weight. There was a shuffling sound; something wide and heavy was sliding 
across the floor, not trying nearly as hard as she was to be quiet. Her eyes 
darted from the stall door beside her to the bathroom door. The shuffling 
continued, but she could not tell where it was coming from; the sound 
filled the room. Suddenly the nebulous sound resolved: It was crisp, and it was 
nearby. The wall she clung to trembled slightiy. She panned her gaze 
around the room, hoping her eyes would adjust a little more. She could 
make out a trash can by the door and the outline of the sinks. 
Apprehensively, she looked back at the door of her stall, letting her focus 
creep along the edges until she set her eyes on the inch-wide gap along 
the door. A large plastic eye stared back, unblinking and dry, fixed 
directly on her. Two large and unnatural rabbit ears hung over the top of 
the door. Charlie clasped her hand over her mouth and jumped to the floor as 
fast as she could, dropping to her stomach and scooting along the floor 
into the second stall. She heard Bonnie rattle the door of the stall she had 
just left, but the shuffling feet did not move. She crawled under the next 
divider and into the stall nearest the entrance. This time her foot bumped 
the toilet behind her, and the lip dropped down with a loud clank. Charlie froze. The shuffling thing did not move. For what felt like an 
age, Charlie held her breath. He heard, he must have heard! But Bonnie 
still made no sound. Charlie held still and listened, waiting for another sound of movement to mask her own. Her breathing seemed louder than 
before. She lowered her head, trying to make out shapes along the floor. The shuffling sound resumed, and now, without warning, it was 
directly in front of her. She held her breath, desperately trying to make 
out any forms in the darkness. There he is. A large, padded foot was just 
outside the door, as if it had stopped midstep. Is he leaving? Please 
leave, Charlie pleaded. There was a new sound: stiff fabric, softly 
crunching. What is that? The foot outside the door had not moved. The 
noise grew louder, the sound of fabric and fur twisting and stretching, 
tearing and popping. What is that? Charlie dug into the floor with her 
nails, holding down a guttural scream. He’s bending over. A large paw 
touched down gently in front of her, then another shape: the creature’s 
head. It was massive, filling the space under the door. Gracefully, Bonnie 
lowered himself to the floor and turned his head sideways until his eye 
met Charlie’s. His giant mouth was open wide with a ghoulish 
excitement, as though he had found someone in a game of hide-and-seek. A warm burst of air rolled in under the stall door. Breath? Charlie 
clasped her hand over her nose and mouth; the stench was unbearable. 
Another wave of it hit her face, hotter and more putrid. She closed her 
eyes, on the point of relinquishing the hope of escape. Maybe if she kept 
her eyes closed long enough, she would wake up. Another gust of hot air 
hit, and she jerked back, hitting the back of her head on the toilet. She 
recoiled with pain and threw her arm in front of her, shielding her face 
against attack. No attack came. She opened one eye. Where is he? Suddenly the metal walls around her swayed with a resounding bang. 
Charlie startled and covered her head as Bonnie struck again. The stalls 
rocked on their legs, and the bolts screeched as they were yanked free 
from the floor, the whole assembly seeming ready to collapse. Charlie 
scrambled under the last divider and climbed to her feet, grasping for the 
door handle to pull it shut as she ran out. She ran back into the main dining area, darting toward the control 
room. Her eyes no longer adjusted to the light, she ran with her hands in 
front of her, unable to see farther than her next steps. “John!” she cried, grabbing the doorknob and yanking at it, pushing. Nothing happened. “Charlie, it’s stuck!” John shouted back from inside. As Charlie 
struggled with the door, she glanced up at the stage. Chica was gone. “John!” Charlie shouted in desperation. Without waiting for a 
response, Charlie took off again, running for a hall to her left, trying to 
get as much distance from the bathroom as possible. The hall was almost completely dark, and as she ran, open doorways 
yawned at her with wide black mouths. Charlie did not stop to look 
inside any of them, instead only praying that nothing jumped out at her. 
She reached the last door and paused for a brief moment, hoping against 
hope that it would be unlocked. She grabbed the knob and twisted. 
Thankfully, it fell open easily. She slid through the door, then closed it rapidly, trying not to make a 
sound. She stood watching the door for a long moment, half expecting it 
to be flung open, and then finally she turned. It was only then that she 
saw him: Carlton was there. His eyes widened in surprise when he saw 
her, but he did not move, and after her eyes adjusted to the dim light she 
understood. He was trapped, wedged somehow into the top half of one of 
the animatronic suits, his head poking out from the wide shoulders of the 
costume. His face was white and exhausted, and Charlie knew why. The 
spring locks. She heard her father’s voice for a moment. It could snap off 
your nose! “Carlton?” Charlie said cautiously, as if her voice alone might set off 
the mechanisms. “Yup,” he said, with the same faltering tone. “That costume is going to kill you if you move.” “Thanks,” he wheezed, half attempting a laugh. Charlie forced a 
smile. “Well, today is your lucky day. I’m probably the only person who 
knows how to get you out of that thing alive.” Carlton exhaled a long and shaky breath. “Lucky me,” he said. Charlie knelt at his side, studying the costume for long moments 
without touching it. “These two spring locks at the neck aren’t holding anything back,” she said at last. “He just rigged them to snap and pierce 
your throat if you try to move. I have to undo those first, and then we can 
open the back of the costume and get you out. But you can’t move, 
Carlton, seriously.” “Yeah, serial killer man explained the not moving to me,” he said. 
Charlie nodded and went back to looking at the costume, trying to devise 
an approach. “Do you know who I’m wearing?” Carlton asked, almost casually. “What?” “The costume, do you know what character it was supposed to be?” 
Charlie studied it, then looked around until she saw the matching head. “No,” she said. “Not everything he built made it to the stage.” Her 
fingers suddenly stopped working. “Carlton.” Charlie carefully surveyed 
the array of costumes and parts that lined the walls in varying stages of 
completion. “Carlton,” she repeated. “Is he in here?” With a new sense of dread, Carlton struggled to get a look behind 
him without moving. “I don’t know,” he whispered. “I don’t think so, but 
I’ve been kind of in and out.” “Okay, stop talking. I’ll try to work fast,” Charlie said. She had the 
mechanism figured out, or at least she thought she did. “Not too fast,” Carlton reminded her. Carefully, slowly, she reached into the costume’s neck and took hold 
of the first spring lock, maneuvering it until her fingers were wedged 
between the lock and Carlton’s neck. “Careful with that artery; I’ve had it since I was a kid,” Carlton said. “Shh,” Charlie whispered. When Carlton spoke, she could feel his 
neck move; he was not going to set off the locks by talking, she thought, 
but the feeling of his tendons moving under her hands was unsettling. “Okay,” he whispered. “Sorry. I talk when I’m nervous.” He clamped 
down his jaw and bit his lips together. Charlie reached down farther into 
the costume’s neck and found the trigger. With a stinging snap, the lock 
sprang against her hand, so hard that it numbed her fingers. One down, 
she thought as she pulled it, harmless, out of the neck of the costume. 
She flexed her fingers until the feeling came back into them, then crawled over to Carlton’s other side and began the process again. She 
looked over her shoulder from time to time, making sure every costume 
was still in its place against the wall. His skin was warm under her touch, and even though he was not 
speaking, she could still feel movement, feel the life in him. She could 
feel his pulse against the back of her wrist as she worked, and she 
blinked back unexpected tears. She swallowed hard and focused on the 
task, trying to ignore the fact that she was touching someone who would 
die if she failed him. She worked open the spring lock again, taking the impact on the palm 
of her hand and pulling the disabled device free of the costume. Carlton 
took a deep breath in, and she startled. “Carlton, don’t relax!” He stiffened and exhaled slowly, his eyes wide and frightened. “Right,” he said. “Still a death trap.” “Stop talking,” Charlie pleaded again. She knew exactly how much 
danger he was still in, and she could not bear to hear him speak now, if 
he was about to die. “Okay,” she said. “Almost there.” She crawled 
around behind him, where a series of ten leather and metal fasteners held 
the back of the costume together. She considered it for a moment. She 
needed to keep the costume still, exactly as it was, until the last moment. 
She sat down behind him and bent her knees, positioning herself so that 
she could hold the costume in place with her legs as she opened it. “I didn’t know you cared,” Carlton muttered as though attempting to 
put a joke together but too tired and too scared to finish it. Charlie didn’t 
answer. One by one, she worked the fasteners free. The leather was stiff, the 
metal tightly fitted, and each one fought back as she worked, clinging 
together. When she was halfway up the back of the costume, she felt its 
weight begin to shift. She gripped it tighter with her knees, holding it 
together. Finally, she undid the last one, at the nape of his neck. She took 
a deep breath. This was it. “Okay, Carlton,” she said. “We’re almost done. I’m going to open 
this and throw it forward. When I do, you pull out of it as fast as you can, okay? One ... two ... three!” She yanked the costume open and thrust it away with all her strength, 
and Carlton jerked back from it, toppling roughly into her. Charlie felt a 
sharp, quick pain on the back of her hand as she pulled free, but the 
costume skittered halfway across the room, leaving them clear. A series 
of snaps sounded, making a noise like fireworks, and they both cried out, 
leaping back and banging into a heavy metal shelf. Together they 
watched as the empty costume writhed and twisted across the floor, the 
animatronic parts snapping violently into place. When it came to a stop, 
Charlie stared, fixated. The thing was just a torso, just an object. Beside her, Carlton let out a low, pained groan, then turned and 
vomited onto the floor beside him, heaving and retching like he would be 
turned inside out. Charlie watched, unsure what to do. She put a hand on 
his shoulder and kept it there as he finished, wiped his mouth, and sat 
gasping for breath. “Are you okay?” she said, the words sounding small and ridiculous. Carlton nodded wearily, then winced. “Yeah, I’m fine,” he said. 
“Sorry about the floor. I guess it’s your floor, kind of.” “You might have a concussion,” Charlie said, alarmed, but he shook 
his head, moving more slowly this time. “No, I don’t think so,” he said. “My head hurts like somebody hit it 
really hard, and I feel sick from being stuck in this room and pondering 
my death for hours, but I think I’m okay. My mind is okay.” “Okay,” Charlie said doubtfully. Then something he had said finally 
registered. “Carlton, you said ‘serial killer man explained’ for you not to 
move. You saw who did this to you?” Carlton got to his knees carefully, then stood, bracing himself on a 
nearby box. He looked at Charlie. “I was trapped in that thing for hours; 
I’m all tingly.” He shook out his foot as if to make the point. “Did you see who it was?” Charlie repeated. “Dave, the guard,” Carlton said. He sounded almost surprised that 
she did not know. Charlie nodded. She had known already. “What did he tell you?” “Not much,” Carlton said. “But ...” His eyes opened suddenly, as if he had just remembered something of grave importance. He looked away 
from Charlie and slowly dropped to his knees. “What is it?” Charlie whispered. “Do you want to hear?” he said. He seemed suddenly calm for 
someone who had so narrowly escaped death. “What is it?” she demanded. He glanced nervously at her for a 
moment, then took a deep breath, his face draining to white. “Charlie, the kids, all those years ago ...” Charlie snapped to attention. “What?” “All of them, Michael and the others, they were taken from the dining 
room when no one was looking, and they were brought here.” Carlton 
suddenly recoiled and moved toward the doorway, watching the walls as 
though they were crawling with invisible creatures. “He—Dave, the 
guard—he brought them here ...” Carlton rubbed his arms like he was 
suddenly cold and squinted in pain. “He put them into suits, Charlie,” he 
said, his face twisting in sorrow or disgust. “Charlie.” He stopped 
abruptly, a faraway look in his eyes. “They are still here.” “How do you know that?” Charlie said in such a soft whisper that she 
was almost inaudible. Carlton motioned toward the far comer of the room. Charlie looked; a 
yellow Freddy costume was propped against the wall, the costume all 
fitted together, as if he were about to walk onstage for a show. “That’s the one. That’s the bear I remember from the other 
restaurant.” Charlie clasped her hand over her mouth. “Other restaurant?” Carlton looked puzzled. “I don’t understand.” Charlie’s gaze was still fixed on the yellow 
costume. “Carlton, I don’t understand.” Her tone was urgent. “Michael.” Charlie stared at him. Michael? “What do you mean?” she said in a level voice. “I know how it sounds,” he said, and then his voice dropped to a 
whisper. “Charlie, I think it’s Michael in that suit.” 
“I still can’t get this thing out!” John sighed in frustration and rubbed his 
hand; the lock was leaving harsh red imprints on his fingers. Jessica 
murmured something sympathetic, but she did not take her eyes off the 
screens. “I can’t see anything!” she burst out after a moment. The radio squawked, and then Marla’s voice came, calling to them 
from the control room in Pirate’s Cove. “Both of you, be quiet and don’t move.” They froze, hunching down 
in their places. Jessica looked at John, a question in her eyes, but he 
shrugged, as at a loss as she was. Something thudded against the door. John jumped away, almost 
falling. “Marla?” Jessica said with a pale expression. “Marla, that’s you out 
there, right?” The thud came again, more powerful than before, and the 
door shook under it. “What is that, a sledgehammer?” John whispered hoarsely. The door 
pounded in again and again, dents appearing in the metal door, which 
had looked so solid. They huddled back against the control panel with 
nothing to do but watch. Jessica grabbed the back of John’s shirt, 
knotting the cloth between her fingers, and he did not shake her away. 
The door rocked in again, and this time a hinge unfolded slightly, 
exposing a thin crack between the door and the frame. The door still 
held, but it would not hold for long. John felt Jessica’s fingers tighten on 
his shirt; he wanted to turn and give her some kind of comfort, but he 
was mesmerized, unable to look away. He could almost see out through 
the little open space, and he craned his neck. Another blow came. The 
crack widened, and on the other side he saw eyes peering in, calm and 
expressionless. 

“Get out, get out!” Marla shouted, waving her hands at the security 
monitor as if John and Jessica could see her, as if it would do any good if 
they could. Lamar had both hands clapped over his mouth, his eyes wide, 
and Jason was sitting on the floor, waiting nervously as though an attack on their own door might begin at any moment. The monitors were dark, 
but it was clear that something large was lurking in front of the main 
stage, a black static shape that prowled back and forth, momentarily 
blocking the entire picture. “Marla,” Lamar whispered, hoping to quiet her. “Marla, look—” He 
pointed to the monitor showing Pirate’s Cove, just outside their door. 
Marla looked over his shoulder at the other screen. The curtain was 
pulled back, and the space was completely empty. The out of order 
sign hung perfectly straight across the platform, untouched. “The lock, we didn’t ... ,” Marla said feebly, realizing now the 
magnitude of their mistake. Marla turned to Jason, then let out a 
panicked whimper—the door behind him was slowly opening. “Shhh.” Lamar quickly flipped a small switch, killing the light in the 
control room, and backed against the wall next to the door. Marla and 
Jason mimicked his motions, flattening themselves against the wall 
across from him. The monitors still flickered with static, illuminating the 
space in oscillating grays and the occasional flash of white. The small door creaked outward at an excruciating pace, a gaping 
black void widening until the door stopped, fully open. “Marla!” a static-laced voice called from somewhere on the floor. 
Lamar shot out his foot across the narrow carpet, trying to catch the 
walkie-talkie. “Shhh, shhh ...” Marla closed her eyes, pleading in her mind for 
Jessica to stop talking. “Marla, where are you?” Jessica’s voice called again. Lamar 
managed to flip the walkie-talkie onto its side, and with a click it went 
silent. He didn’t know if he had jostled a battery out of place or 
somehow managed to flip the switch, but it didn’t matter. There was nowhere to hide in the tiny room. The ceiling was too low 
to stand, and even with their backs against the wall their legs stretched 
under the doorframe. The ledge under the door was high enough to hide 
their legs from anything outside, but not from anything that managed to 
get in. As one, they stopped breathing. The room was no longer empty; something was entering the space. As it pressed forward into the room, 
they saw a snout and the scratchy gloss of two unblinking eyes staring 
straight ahead. The monstrous head threatened to fill the room. “Foxy,” Jason mouthed, making no sound. The plastic eyes clicked 
left and right with unnatural motions, searching but not seeing. The jaw 
twitched as though about to open, but never did. The dim light from the monitors gave his face a reddish hue, leaving 
the rest of him shrouded in darkness. His head slowly moved backward, 
his ears moving up and down at random, programmed as an afterthought 
a decade before. As Foxy backed away, his eyes thrashed back and forth, 
one partially hidden under a rotting eyepatch. Marla held her breath, 
dreading the moment when the eyes would fix on her. The head was 
almost out the door when the eyes clicked to the right and found Marla. 
The head stopped, its jaw frozen, slightly open. The plastic eyes 
remained on Marla, who sat in terrified silence. After a moment, the head 
retreated, leaving a black and empty space. Jason darted forward to find the door outside and shut it, and Marla 
made a weak grab at him, trying to stop him. He brushed past her, then 
stopped, kneeling in the doorway. He looked into the darkness, only now 
afraid of what must be there. He crawled slowly forward, his torso 
disappearing temporarily as he reached outside for the doorknob, then 
pulled himself back in and gently closed the door. Marla and Lamar 
closed their eyes and let out a deep breath at the same time. Jason looked at them; he was almost smiling when, in a blur, the door 
burst open again and an ugly metal hook sank into his leg. He screamed 
in pain. Marla leaped to grab him, but she was too slow. She watched 
helplessly as Jason was dragged through the doorway. “Marla!” he cried, clawing futilely at the floor, and she howled in 
despair as he was taken from her again, nothing visible of his assailant 
but the awful glimmer of the hook. Marla dove toward the door after him, falling to her knees and 
crawling toward the thing, but Lamar grabbed her shoulder and yanked 
her back, taking hold of the door. Before he could pull it shut, it was 
ripped from his hands with an inhuman strength. Suddenly Foxy was there before them, coming inside. He was full of life, a different creature, and he turned to look at 
Marla, his silver eyes appearing to comprehend. His face was a canine 
rictus, the scrappy orange fur insufficient to cover up his skull. He 
looked between them, turning his ghoulish smile first on Lamar, then on 
Marla. His eyes flared and dimmed, and he snapped his jaws with a 
sound like something breaking. They stared, backed up against the 
control panel, and then Lamar realized suddenly what he was looking at. “He can’t fit all the way in,” he whispered. Marla looked. It was true 
—Foxy’s shoulders were jammed in the doorway, his head the only part 
he could wedge through the door. Lamar lunged forward and kicked the animatronic, bracing himself 
against the wall and striking out with his foot three times before Foxy 
gave a low whine, a sound more machine than animal, and slunk back 
out into the dark. Lamar snapped the door shut behind him and slid the 
deadbolt into place. They stared at each other for a long moment, 
breathing hard. “Jason!” Marla screamed. Lamar put his arms around her. She let him hug her, but she did not 
cry, just closed her eyes. 
“What do you mean, it’s Michael in the suit?” Charlie said softly, as if 
she might be talking to someone who had gone mad, while also desperate 
to hear the answer. Carlton looked at the yellow bear for a long moment, 
and when he turned back to Charlie, his face was calm. He opened his 
mouth to speak, and Charlie put a finger to her lips. Something was 
coming; she could hear footsteps out in the hall, moving toward them. 
Deliberate, heavy steps, the approach of someone who did not mind if 
anyone heard. Charlie looked wildly around the room and spotted a pipe 
in a corner. She grabbed it and hurried to stand behind the door, where 
whoever opened it would not see her. Carlton picked up the torso, as 
though to use it as a weapon somehow. He looked confused, like he was 
not thinking clearly. “Don’t,” Charlie warned in a low voice, but she was too late. 
Something snapped inside the suit. Carlton dropped it and stepped back, 
a shimmer of blood on his hand. “Are you okay?” Charlie whispered. He nodded, and then the 
doorknob turned. Dave appeared in the doorway, his head held high and his face grim. 
It should have been imposing, but he just looked like a man walking 
through a door. “Now you’ve done it,” he announced to the room in general, then his 
eyes lit on Carlton, unfettered. His face darkened. Before he could move, 
Charlie raised the pipe high, stepped forward, and swung it down on his 
head with a sickening thunk. Dave turned, shock on his face. Charlie lifted the pipe, ready to attack 
again, but the man just stumbled backward against the wall and dropped 
into a sitting position. “Carlton! Come on,” Charlie said urgently, but he was looking down 
at his injured hand. “Carlton? Are you hurt?” “No,” he said, shaking off his reverie and wiping his hand clean with 
his black shirt. “Come on,” Charlie said firmly, taking his arm. “Come on, we have 
to get out of here. I don’t know how long he’ll stay out.” You’re awfully 
calm for just having knocked a guy out cold, she thought wryly. They crept out into the empty hallway, lit only by the dim glow of 
light from the other rooms. Charlie hustled them through the swinging 
doors to the kitchen, where the dark was total. The air was thick with a 
blackness that was almost tangible; it was as if they had been swallowed. 
She turned to look at Carlton, but only the faint sound of his breathing 
told her that he was still beside her. Something touched her arm, and she 
stifled a scream. “It’s just me,” Carlton hissed, and she let out a sigh. “Let’s just make sure that we aren’t being followed, then we can find 
the others and get out of here,” she whispered. Charlie glanced back at 
the door, and the last spots of light peeking under it. She scooted herself 
a little closer to it and got to her feet to peer through the round window, careful not to touch it. “What do you see?” Carlton whispered. “Nothing. I think it’s safe.” Just as she finished speaking, a form passed by, darkening the 
window. Charlie jumped back, almost falling over Carlton. They 
stumbled forward, rushing to get away from the door. Suddenly two beams split the darkness, illuminating the room in a 
harsh yellow light. Chica loomed there, almost on top of them. She 
stretched up to her full height, growing taller still. She must have been 
hiding here all along, Charlie thought. The dark recesses of the kitchen 
could be hiding anything. Chica looked at both of them in turn, the 
beams of light shifting dizzyingly as her eyes snapped mechanically from 
one side to the other. Then she paused, and Charlie grabbed Carlton’s 
arm. “Run!” she screamed, and they took off, looping around the prep 
table, the metal furniture clattering as they rushed clumsily past it. 
Behind them, Chica’s steps were long and slow. At last they reached the 
door, and they burst out into the hall and ran for the main dining room. John and Jessica were silent, listening to the clamor outside. John was 
resting his hand on the door of the control room; whatever had been on 
the other side was gone, or at least was pretending to be. The lock had 
been wrenched out of the floor. John tried the knob, but the door, twisted 
out of shape, still stuck. “Are you crazy?” Jessica exclaimed, alarmed. “What else are we going to do?” John said calmly. Jessica didn’t 
answer. John backed up against the control panel and gave the door a 
calculated kick, moving it an inch closer to opening. “Here, let me,” Jessica said, and before he could reply she had 
delivered a kick of her own, the door again moving just a little. They took turns, not speaking, until finally John kicked and the top 
hinge broke. John quickly wrestled the door the rest of the way off until they could crawl out. They hurried out and stopped, exposed in the main dining room. 
Jessica looked at the main stage in misery. It was empty. “I don’t know how this is safer,” she said, but John was not listening. “Charlie!” he cried, then covered his mouth with his hand, too late. 
Charlie and Carlton were running from the dark hallway at a furious 
pace. “Come on!” Charlie yelled at them, not slowing down as she passed, 
and John and Jessica ran after them as Charlie led them out of the dining 
room into the opposite hall, toward the storeroom they had come in 
through. Charlie ran down the hall with a purpose, stopping in front of a 
closed door and trying to get it open. Behind them loomed the open 
mouth of a pitch-black party room, a wide, empty space that could have 
hidden anything. John turned his back to the group, keeping an eye on 
the abyss. “Is it locked?” Carlton asked, an edge of rising panic in his voice. “No, just stuck,” Charlie said. She forced it, and the door popped 
open. They hurried inside, John lingering until the last moment, his eyes 
still on the darkness behind him. When the door was shut, Charlie reached for the light switch by the 
door, but John put a hand on her arm. “Don’t turn the light on,” he said, looking back for a moment. “We 
have enough light; let your eyes adjust.” There was a window high up on the door, thick glass with a bubbling 
frosted pattern that let a trickle of light and color into the room from the 
hallway. “Right,” Charlie said. A light on in here would have marked them out 
clearly. In the semidarkness, she surveyed the room. It had been an 
office, though not one she remembered visiting often; she was not sure 
who had used it. There were cartons here and there on the floor, 
overstuffed to bulging with papers, their lids perched sheepishly on top 
of the mess inside. There was an old desk in the corner, a grayish-blue 
metal with visible dents in the surface. Jessica boosted herself up to sit on it. “Lock the door,” Jessica said in an irritated tone, and Charlie did. 
There was a button set into the knob, which she knew would be useless, 
and a flimsy bolt lock, the kind in bathroom stalls and on picket fences. “I guess it’s better than nothing,” she said. 
They sat silently for a few minutes in the little office, everyone eyeing 
the door, waiting. It’s just another place to be trapped, Charlie thought. “We have to get out of here,” Jessica said softly, echoing Charlie’s 
thoughts. Suddenly Carlton made a small sound of distress. 
Spasmodically, he grabbed a cardboard box, tipping it over to dump out 
some of the contents, and vomited into it. His stomach was empty; he 
retched futilely, his guts clenching and seizing to no effect. At last he sat 
back, gasping. His face was red, and there were tears in his eyes. “Carlton? Are you okay?” John asked, alarmed. “Yeah, never better,” Carlton said as his breathing returned slowly to 
normal. “You have a concussion,” Charlie said. “Look at me.” She knelt 
down in front of him and looked at his eyes, trying to remember what the 
pupils were supposed to look like if someone had a concussion. Carlton 
waggled his eyebrows. “Oh, oh, owl” He ground his teeth and ducked his head, clutching it 
as if someone might try to take it away from him. “Sorry,” he said after a moment, still bent over in pain. “I think it was all that running. I’ll be 
okay.” “But—” Charlie started to protest, but he cut her off, straightening 
with a visible effort. “Charlie, it’s fine. Can you blame me for being a little out of sorts? 
What about you?” He pointed at her arm, and she looked down, 
confused. There was a small, bright red patch leaking through the bandage on 
her arm; the wound must have opened while they were fleeing. “Oh,” Charlie said, suddenly a little nauseated herself. John moved 
toward her to help, but she waved him away. “I’m fine,” she said. She 
moved the arm experimentally; it ached with the same dull pain that had 
been radiating through it for the last few days, but it did not seem worse, 
and the spot of blood wasn’t growing very fast. There was another rumble of thunder outside, and the walls trembled. “We have to get out of here. Not out of this room, out of this 
building!” Jessica exclaimed. “Carlton needs a doctor,” John added. Jessica’s voice rose in pitch, sounding frantic. “We’re all going to 
need a doctor if we don’t leave!” “I know,” Charlie said. She felt a rising irritation at the self-evident 
statement, and she tried to tamp it down. They were scared, and they 
were trapped; sniping at one another would not help. “Okay,” she said. 
“You’re right. We need to get out. We could try the skylight.” “I don’t think we’ll be able to get out that way,” John said. “There’s got to be a ladder in this place somewhere,” Charlie replied, 
her fear receding as she considered the options. She sat up straighter, 
gathering herself together. “It won’t help,” Jessica said. “Air vents,” John said hastily. “The ones Jason got in through were 
too small, but there have to be others. Windows—Freddy’s had 
windows, right? They have to lead somewhere.” “I think it’s safe to say that they’ve all been bricked up.” Charlie 
shook her head and looked at the floor for a moment, then she met John’s eyes. “This whole place has been sealed.” The walkie-talkie crackled to life, and they all jumped. Lamar’s voice 
came over the radio. “John?” John grabbed the radio. “Yeah? Yeah, I’m here, and I’m with Charlie, Jessica, and Carlton. 
We’re in an office.” “Good,” Lamar said. “Listen—” There was a brief scrabbling noise, 
then Marla’s voice came through. “Good,” she said. “Listen, I’m looking at the monitors, and it looks 
like all the robots are on the main stage again.” “What about Pirate’s Cove?” Charlie put in, leaning over John to talk 
into the receiver. “Is Foxy there, too?” There was a brief pause. “The curtain is closed,” Marla said. “Marla, is everything okay?” Charlie said. “Yeah,” she answered shortly, and the background static vanished 
abruptly—she had turned the walkie-talkie off. Charlie and John exchanged a glance. “Something’s wrong,” Carlton said. “Other than the obvious, I 
mean.” He gestured in a vague circular motion, indicating everything 
around them. “What are you talking about?” Jessica was losing her patience. “With Marla, I mean,” he said. “Something’s wrong. Call her back.” John pressed the call button again. “Marla? What’s going on?” There was no reply for a long minute, then Lamar replied, “We don’t 
know where Jason is.” His voice began to break. “He’s in danger.” Charlie felt a jolt through her stomach. No. She heard John take a 
deep breath. There was a shuddering sound from the other end of the radio: Marla 
was crying. She started to speak, broke off, and tried again. “Foxy,” she said, her voice a little loud as she forced the words out. 
“Foxy took him.” “Foxy?” Charlie said carefully. The figure standing in the front hallway, the rain whipping past it, the silver eyes, burning in the dark. 
She took the walkie-talkie from John’s hand; he gave it up without 
protest. “Marla, listen, we’re going to find him. Do you hear me?” Her 
bravado echoed emptily, even in her own ears. The walkie-talkie made 
no sound. Agitated, needing to move, to do something, Charlie turned to 
the others. “I’m going to check out the skylight one more time,” she said. 
“Jessica, come with me; you’ve got the best chance of fitting.” “Right,” Jessica said reluctantly, but she got to her feet. “You shouldn’t go alone,” John said, standing to go with them. 
Charlie shook her head. “Someone has to stay with him,” she said, gesturing at Carlton. “Hey, I’m a big boy. I can stay by myself,” Carlton said, speaking to 
a shelf. “Nobody is staying by themselves,” Charlie said firmly. John gave 
her a brief, precise nod, something just short of a salute, and she returned 
it. She looked back at Carlton, whose face was drawn, tight with pain. 
“Don’t let him fall asleep,” she told John in a low voice. “I know,” he whispered. “I can hear you, you know,” Carlton said, but his voice was flat and 
fatigued. “Come on,” Jessica said. Charlie shut the door behind them and heard 
John slip the lock back into place. Charlie led the way. The closet with the skylight wasn’t far, and they 
crept down the hallway and through the doors without incident. “The skylight. Look, there’s no way to climb out through it, even for 
me. To get to the roof, I would have to put all my weight on the glass; it 
would break. Even if we had a ladder, this isn’t the way out,” Jessica 
said. “We could take the skylight window off,” Charlie suggested weakly. “I guess we could break out all the glass. But that just brings us back 
to the ladder question. We need to look around.” 
A sudden knock on the door caught John’s attention, and he sprang to his 
feet and listened carefully. Charlie knocked again, briefly regretting that 
they had not come up with some sort of signal. “It’s me,” she called 
softly, and the lock slid back. John looked worried. “What is it?” Charlie said, and he cast his eyes in Carlton’s direction. 
Carlton was huddled on the floor, his knees drawn up tight to his chest, 
and his arms were wrapped oddly around his head. Charlie knelt down 
beside him. “Carlton?” she said, and he made a small whimper. She put a hand on 
his shoulder, and he leaned in to her a little. “Charlie? Sorry about all this,” he whispered. “Shhh. Tell me what’s going on,” she said. She had a sick feeling of 
dread. Something was really wrong, and she did not know how much 
was his injury and how much was just exhaustion, pain, and terror. 
“You’re going to be okay,” she said, stroking his back and hoping it was 
true. After a long moment, he pushed at her, and she drew back, slightly 
hurt, until she saw him pitch forward over the cardboard box, retching 
again. She looked up at John. “He needs a doctor,” he said in a low voice, and she nodded. Carlton 
sat up again and wiped his face with his sleeve. “It’s not that bad. I’m just so tired.” “You can’t go to sleep,” Charlie said. “I know, I won’t. But I didn’t sleep last night, and I haven’t eaten 
since yesterday—it just makes everything worse. I had a bad moment, 
but I’m okay.” Charlie looked at him dubiously but did not argue. “Now what?” Jessica said. Charlie didn’t answer right away, even 
though she knew the question was for her. She was picturing the guard, 
his eyes rolling back in his head as he collapsed, his thin face going slack 
as he fell. They needed answers, and he was the one who had them. “Now let’s hope I didn’t accidentally kill that guard,” Charlie said. “I don’t want to go back out there,” Jessica said. “We have to go back to where I found Carlton.” “Hang on,” said John, pulling out the radio again. “Hey, Marla, are you there?” There was a blip of static, then Marla’s voice. “Yeah, we’re here.” “We need to get to the supply room. It’s off the main dining room, 
past the stage. Can you see the area?” There was a pause as Marla searched her screens. “I can see most of it. Where are you? I can’t see you.” “We’re in an office. It’s—” John looked at Charlie for help, and she 
took the radio. “Marla, do you see another hall leading from the main room? Sort of 
the same direction as the closet, but next to it?” “What? There are too many hallways!” “Hang on. Can you see this?” Over the protests of the others, Charlie 
opened the office door and poked her head out cautiously. When she saw 
that the space was clear—or at least she was fairly sure it was clear—she 
stepped out into the open, looked up, and waved. There was nothing but 
a quiet, steady static from the walkie-talkie, then Marla’s voice came 
through, excited. “I see you! Charlie, I can see you.” Charlie ducked back into the little room, and Jessica caught the door 
and shut it behind her, double- and triple-checking the lock. “Okay, Marla,” Charlie said. “Follow the cameras. You can see that 
hall. Can you see the main dining room?” “Yes,” she said instantly, “most of it. I can see the stage and the area 
around it, and I can see the second hallway, the one parallel to yours.” “Can you see the door at the end?” “Yes, but Charlie, I can’t see into the supply room.” “We’ll just have to take our chances with what’s in there,” Charlie 
answered. “Marla,” she said into the receiver, “are we clear to get to the 
dining room?” “Yes,” Marla said after a moment. “I think so.” Charlie took the lead, and all four of them made their way slowly 
down the hall. Jessica hung back a little with Carlton, staying so close to 
him he almost tripped over her feet. “Jessica, I’m fine,” he said. “I know,” she said quietly, but she did not move away, and he did not 
protest again. When they reached the end of the hallway, they stopped. “Marla?” Charlie said into the radio. “Go ahead—no, stop!” she cried, and they froze, pressing their 
bodies up against the walls as if it might make them invisible. Marla 
whispered over the walkie-talkie, her hushed tones distorting her voice 
even more. “Something—stay quiet—” She said something else, but it was 
unintelligible. Charlie craned her neck to see out into the room and what 
might be lurking there, some murky form, lumbering heavily in the 
shadows, poised to attack. There was a long rumble outside, and the 
panels on the ceiling rattled as if they were about to fall. “Marla, I don’t see anything,” Charlie said into the walkie-talkie. She 
looked at the stage, where all of the animatronics were still in position, 
staring sightlessly into the distance. “Me neither,” John whispered. “Sorry,” Marla said. “Not to overstate the obvious, but it’s creepy in 
here. It feels like it’s been midnight for hours. Does anyone know what 
time it is?” Charlie checked her watch, squinting to see the little hand. “It’s 
almost four,” she said. “A.m. or p.m.?” Marla said. She didn’t sound like she was joking. “P.m.” Lamar’s voice came over the radio, hard to hear, like he was 
not close enough to the receiver. “I told you, Marla, it’s daytime.” “It doesn’t feel like daytime,” Marla sobbed, shrieking as the building 
shook with a crash of thunder. “I know,” he said softly, and the radio clicked off. Charlie looked at 
the walkie-talkie for a moment with a sense of emptiness. It was like 
hanging up the phone, knowing the person on the other end was still 
there but feeling a loss anyway, as if they might be gone for good. “Charlie?” John said, and she looked at him. He cast a nod back at 
Carlton, who was leaning against the wall, his eyes closed. Jessica was 
hovering worriedly, not sure what to do. “We have to get him out of here,” John said. “I know,” Charlie said. “Come on. That guard is our best chance of 
getting out alive.” With one more look at the open space in front of them, 
she led them out into the main room. Crossing in front of the stage, she saw John and Jessica glancing 
upward, but she refused to look at the animals, as if that would stop them 
from looking at her. It did not help; she felt their eyes on her, taking her 
measure, waiting for their moment. Finally she could not stand it—she 
snapped her head around to look as they passed. She saw only the 
inanimate robots, their eyes fixed on something that no one else could 
see. They paused again at a hall entrance, waiting for Marla to guide 
them, and after an anxious moment her voice came over the radio, calm 
again. “Go ahead, the hall is clear.” They went. They were almost there, and Charlie felt a tightness in her 
stomach like a living knot, something snakelike that was fighting to be 
free. She thought of Carlton, retching on the floor of the office, and she 
felt for a moment like she might do the same. She stopped a few feet 
from the door, holding up a hand. “I don’t know if he’s in there,” she said in a low voice. “And if he is, 
I don’t know if he’s—awake.” Now let’s hope I didn’t accidentally kill 
that guard, she had said. She was only kidding, but now the words came 
back, unsettling her. It had not really occurred to her that he might be 
dead until the words were out of her mouth, and now, as she stood in the 
hall, about to find out, the idea took hold. As if he knew what she was thinking, John said, “Charlie, we have to 
go in.” She nodded. John moved as if to take the lead, but she shook her 
head. Whatever was in there, it was her doing. Her responsibility. She 
closed her eyes for a brief moment, then turned the knob. He was dead. He was lying on the floor, on his back, his eyes closed 
and his face ashen. She felt herself put a hand over her mouth, but it was 
as if someone else were moving her body. She felt numb, the knots in her stomach gone still and dead. John pushed past her. He knelt and slapped 
the man’s face. “John,” she said, hearing a note of panic in her voice. He looked up at 
her, surprised. “He’s not dead,” he said. “He’s just out cold. He can’t tell us 
anything like this.” “We have to tie him up or something,” Jessica said. “Don’t wake him 
up like this.” “Yeah, gotta agree with that,” Carlton said. His eyes searched the 
room for devices, tools, or costumes—anything that Dave could—and 
probably would—use against them, given the opportunity. Charlie just stared, the numb feeling lingering. He’s not dead. She 
shook herself all over like a dog, trying to rid herself of the remnants of 
shock, and cleared her throat. “Let’s find something to tie him up with,” she said. “This place 
seems to have everything.” Jessica headed to the back of the room, where 
costume pieces were piled haphazardly, empty mascots’ heads staring 
out from odd angles with ghastly eyes. “Careful touching the costumes,” Charlie called toward Jessica. “We could always put him in one of them, like he did to me,” Carlton 
said. There was an uncharacteristic edge to his voice, something hard and 
painful. Charlie didn’t think it was from his injury. He sat down on a 
box, his face strained and his arms wrapped around his body like he was 
holding himself together. Suddenly Carlton’s face lit up with alarm. “Don’t touch—” he shouted and pushed Charlie out of the way. He 
stumbled past Jessica, who was searching through the clutter, and started 
tearing his way through the mess, picking up boxes and pushing things 
out of his way, scrambling in a desperate search. “Charlie, where is it?!” he demanded, his gaze roaming around the 
room futilely. Charlie went to him, following where he looked, and 
realized what was missing: the yellow bear suit that had been slouched in 
the comer. “What?” John said, confused. “Charlie, where is it? Where is Michael?” Carlton sat with a thud on 
a cardboard box that sagged a little but held his weight. He was only 
looking at Charlie, as if they were the only people in the room. “Michael?” John whispered. He looked at Charlie, but she returned 
his gaze silently; she had no answers to offer him. “Michael was there.” Carlton pressed his lips firmly, rocking himself 
back and forth. “I believe you,” Charlie answered calmly, her voice quiet. John put 
his hands on his knees and let out a breath. “I’m going to go help Jessica,” he muttered and stood up with 
resignation. “There has to be rope around here somewhere.” “Be right there.” Charlie smiled at Carlton, hoping to reassure him, 
then joined the others, heading for the boxes in the corner beside the 
door. The first just held more paperwork, official forms with tiny print, but 
underneath was a box of tangled extension cords. “Hey, I found something,” Charlie said, but she was cut off by a 
banshee scream. Charlie was on her feet instantly, ready to run, but everyone else was 
still. Jessica was pointing to something in the corner, almost shaking. 
John was behind her, his eyes wide. “What is it?” Charlie demanded, and when they did not answer, she 
rushed over and looked down at the pile of empty costumes to where 
Jessica was pointing. It was hard to sort out what was what in the pile of mascots. She 
stared blankly at the jumble, seeing nothing but fur and eyes and beaks 
and paws, and then it resolved before her eyes. A dead man. He looked young, not much older than they were—and he looked 
familiar. “That’s the cop, the one from the other night,” John said, recovering 
his voice. “What?” Carlton said, snapping to attention. He came over to look. 
“That’s Officer Dunn. I know him.” “Your dad sent him to look for you,” Charlie said quietly. “What do we do?” Jessica said. She had been inching slowly 
backward, and now her foot bumped against Dave, and she jumped, 
stifling another scream. It pulled Charlie’s eyes away from Dunn, and 
looking away was enough to recall her to their task. “There’s nothing we can do,” she said firmly. “Come on, we don’t 
know how much time we have before he wakes up.” John and Jessica followed her across the room, Jessica catching up 
and keeping close to Charlie as if afraid to get too far away from her 
again. Charlie grabbed a handful of cords and tossed it to John. It was a long and tedious process. They propped Dave up into a 
sitting position against the wall, but he kept sliding sideways until John 
took hold of his shoulders. John bent him forward as Charlie tied his 
hands behind his back. She finished and looked up to see John with a 
faint smile on his face. “Do my knots amuse you?” she said as lightly as she could manage. 
The feel of Dave’s flesh, alive yet limp and heavier than it should have 
been, was disturbing, and as she let go of him, she could still feel the 
traces of his clammy skin on her palms. He shrugged. “All those times we played cops and robbers seem to 
have paid off.” “I forgot about that.” She laughed. He nodded sagely. “And yet I still bear the scars of the rope bums you gave me.” John 
smiled. “And that was before I was even a Girl Scout,” Charlie said. “Stop 
complaining and pick up his feet. Let’s hope my skills haven’t 
atrophied.” She finished tying up Dave, pretending a confidence she did not 
really have. The cords were thick and stiff; they were hard to manipulate, 
and she was not sure how long they would hold. When she was as sure as 
she could be, she stepped back. John looked around for a moment as though searching for something, 
then slipped out through the door without a word. Carlton was on his knees, and he walked toward Dave without standing, a clunky, unsteady walk—he looked like he might tip over at 
any moment. “Wakey, wakey, sleepy head,” he whispered. “We’ve got this, Carlton, thanks. You just relax.” Charlie rolled her 
eyes toward Jessica, then turned her attention back to Dave, slapping his 
face lightly, but he remained inert. “Hey, dirtbag. Wake up.” She slapped him again. “Here, try this.” John reappeared with a can of water. “Water 
fountain,” was the only explanation he offered. “The can didn’t hold 
much,” he added. “That’s okay,” Charlie said. She took it from him and held it over 
Dave’s head, letting the small streams of water dribbling from the holes 
in the tin fall on his face. She aimed for his mouth, and after a few 
moments, he spluttered, his eyes opening. “Oh, good, you’re awake,” Charlie said, then dumped the rest of the 
water on his head. He said nothing, but his eyes remained open in a stiff, unnatural stare. “So, Dave,” she said. “How about you tell us what’s going on?” His mouth opened slightly, but no words came out. After a moment 
he became still again, so still that Charlie reluctantly pressed her fingers 
to his neck to check for a pulse. “Is he alive?” John said, creeped out by what seemed to be an on- 
again, off-again animated corpse. He moved closer to the man, kneeling 
so their eyes were level, and looked at him gravely, searching for 
something. “His pulse is normal,” Charlie reported. She pulled her hand back, 
more startled than if he’d been dead. “Charlie, there’s something different about him,” John said urgently. 
He reached out and grasped Dave’s chin, turning his head back and forth. 
Dave did not resist; he just kept staring without expression, as if the 
world around him were not really there. “What do you mean?” Charlie said, though she saw it, too. It was as 
if the guard, the man they had met, had been stripped away, and what sat 
before them was nothing but a blank canvas. John shook his head and released the guard’s chin, wiping his hands on his pants. He stood and stepped back, putting a distance between 
them. “I don’t know,” he said. “There’s just something different.” “Why don’t you tell us about the kids?” Carlton was leaning back 
against the wall, emboldened but still not completely balanced. “The kids 
you killed, you stuffed them into those suits out there.” Carlton motioned 
toward the stage outside. “Carlton, shut up,” John said angrily. “Everything you’re saying is 
nonsense.” “No, it’s true,” Charlie whispered. John gave her a searching look, 
then turned to the others, who had no more answers than Charlie. He 
looked back at Dave with an expression of renewed disgust. Seeing 
John’s face, Charlie was suddenly struck with the weight of memory. 
Michael, who had been a cheerful, careless little boy, Michael who had 
drawn portraits of them all, passing them around with a solemn pride. 
Michael who had been killed, whose final moments must have been all 
pain and terror. Michael, who had been killed by the man before them. 
She looked to the others, and on each of their faces she saw the same 
single thought: This was the man who killed Michael. Without warning, John’s arm shot out like lightning and struck Dave 
across the jaw with a loud crack. Dave slumped back, and John lunged 
and almost fell from the impact of the strike. John regained his posture 
and bounced a little on the balls of his feet, alert, waiting for a reaction, 
or a chance to strike again. Dave’s body moved upward, straightening, 
but the movement was too smooth. He seemed to make no effort, use no 
muscles, and exert no energy. Slowly, his posture corrected, unfolding to 
his slumped state, his mouth hanging open. Carlton stumbled forward. “Take that, jackass.” He swung his arm 
into the air and swayed on his feet. Jessica leaped forward just in time to 
catch him in her arms. Dave continued to stare, and it was only after a moment that Charlie 
considered that he might actually be staring at something. She turned, 
following his line of sight, then suddenly she recoiled. On the table along 
the wall sat a rabbit’s head. “That’s it? You want that?” Charlie stood and approached the mask. 
“You need this?” she added in a whisper. She picked it up carefully, the 
light catching the edges of the spring locks that filled the mascot’s head. 
She picked it up and carried it almost ceremoniously to Dave, who tipped 
his head down in a barely noticeable fashion. Charlie placed it over his head, not being nearly as cautious as she 
had been with Carlton. When the mascot’s head was fully resting on his 
shoulders, the large face raised itself until it was almost completely 
upright. Dave’s eyes opened steadily, glassy and without emotion, like 
the robots on the stage outside. Lines of sweat began to trickle down 
from under the mask, a stain darkening the collar of his uniform shirt. “My dad trusted you,” Charlie said. She was on her knees now, 
looking intently at the rabbit’s face. “What did you do to him?” Her 
voice broke. “I helped him create.” The voice came from inside the mask, but it 
was not Dave’s, not the pitiful, sour tone they would have recognized. 
The voice of the rabbit was smooth and rich, almost musical. It was 
confident, somehow reassuring—a voice that might convince you of 
almost anything. Dave cocked his head to the side, and the mask shifted 
so that only one of his bulbous eyes could peer through the sockets. “We both wanted to love,” he said in those melodious tones. “Your 
father loved. And now I have loved.” “You killed,” Carlton said, then burst out with something that 
sounded like a laugh. He seemed more lucid now, as if anger was 
focusing his mind. He shook loose of Jessica’s hands on his arms and 
knelt down on the floor. “You’re a sick bastard,” Carlton sputtered. “And you’ve created 
monsters. The kids you killed are still here. You’ve imprisoned them!” “They are home, with me.” Dave’s voice was coarse, and the large 
mascot’s head slid forward and tilted as he spoke. “Their happiest day.” “How do we get out?” Charlie placed one hand on the mascot’s head 
and pushed it back into position on Dave’s shoulders. The fur felt wet 
and sticky, as though the costume itself were sweating. “There isn’t a way out anymore. All that’s left is family.” His round eye reappeared through one of the sockets, glimmering in the light. He 
locked eyes with Charlie for a moment, struggling to lean in closer. 
“Oh,” he gasped. “You’re something beautiful, aren’t you?” Charlie 
recoiled as if he had touched her. What’s that supposed to mean? She 
took another step back, fighting a surge of revulsion. “Well, then, you’re trapped, too, and you’re not going to be hurting 
anyone else,” John said in response to the veiled threat. “I don’t have to,” Dave answered. “When it gets dark, they will 
awaken; the children’s spirits will rise. They will kill you. I’ll just walk 
out in the morning, stepping over your corpses, one by one.” He looked 
at each of them in turn, as if relishing the bloody scene. “They’ll kill you, too,” Jessica said. “No, I am quite confident that I will survive.” “Really?” John said suddenly. “I’m pretty sure they’re the spirits of 
the kids you killed,” he all but spat. “Why would they hurt us? It’s you 
they’re after.” “They don’t remember,” Dave said. “They’ve forgotten. The dead do 
forget. All they know is that you are here, trying to take away their 
happiest day. You are intruders.” He lowered his voice to a hush. “You 
are grown-ups.” They looked at one another. “We’re not—” Jessica began. “You’re close enough. Especially to a vengeful, confused, and 
frightened child. None of you will survive the night.” “And what makes you think they won’t kill you?” John said again, 
and Dave’s eyes took on something shining, almost beatific. “Because I am one of them,” he said. 
They all stood staring at the man on the floor. Jessica took an 
involuntary step backward. Charlie was glued to the spot; she could not 
look away from him. Because I am one of them. As if he could tell what 
she was thinking, John stepped up beside her. “Charlie, he’s insane,” he said quietly, and it was enough to break her 
away from that dreadful, ecstatic gaze. She turned to John. “We have to get out,” she said. He nodded, turned back to the group, 
and gestured to the walkie-talkie in his hand. “I’m going back to the control room,” he said. “These things are 
police radios; there has to be a way to get them to reach the outside. 
Maybe I can use the equipment in there to get a signal somehow.” “I’ll go with you,” Charlie said instantly, but he shook his head. “You have to stay with them,” he said, barely audible. Charlie looked 
over at Jessica and Carlton. He was right. Carlton needed someone with 
him, and Jessica—Jessica was holding it together, but she couldn’t be 
left alone in charge of the safety of both of them. Charlie nodded. “Be careful,” she said. He didn’t answer; instead he tucked the walkie-talkie into his belt, 
gave her a wink, and left. 
Clay Burke was in his office, reviewing the week’s case files. There was 
not much: traffic violations, two petty thefts, and one confession to the 
murder of Abraham Lincoln. Clay shuffled through the papers and 
sighed. Shaking his head, he pulled open the bottom drawer of his desk 
and removed the file that had been plaguing him all morning. Freddy’s. When he closed his eyes, he was there again, the cheerful 
family restaurant, its floor streaked with blood. After Michael 
disappeared, he had worked fourteen-hour days, sometimes sleeping in 
the station. Every time he came home he went to look at Carlton, who 
was usually asleep. He wanted to grab his son and hold him close, never 
let him go. It could have been any of the children there that day; it was 
blind, dumb luck that the killer had spared his own. At the time, it was the first murder that the department had dealt with. 
It was a sixteen-person department, usually charged with small thefts and 
noise complaints, and to be handed a gruesome murder made all of them 
feel a little like kids whose toy guns had suddenly turned real. Clay opened the file, knowing what he would find. It was only a 
partial report; the rest of it was in a storage room in the basement. He 
scanned the familiar words, the bureaucratic language that tried but 
failed to obscure the point: There had been no justice done. Sometimes 
the guilty get away with terrible things, but it is the price we pay. He had 
said that to Charlie. He cringed a little now, realizing how that must have 
sounded, to her of all people. He picked up the phone, calling the front desk in a moment of 
urgency rather than walking the twenty feet to ask in person. “Has Dunn reported back from Freddy’s?” he asked before the officer 
on the other end could speak. “No, sir,” she said, “I’ll—” He hung up, not waiting for her to finish. Clay stared restiessly at the 
wall for a long moment, then grabbed his coffee cup and headed to the 
basement. He didn’t have to search for the box of evidence from the Freddy’s 
disappearances; he had been here before. There was no one around, and 
so instead of taking it upstairs to his office, Clay sat down on the 
concrete floor, spreading papers and photographs around him. There 
were interviews, witness statements, and reports from the on-scene 
officers, Clay included. He sifted through them aimlessly. He didn’t 
know what he was looking for; there was nothing new here. There was nothing to find, really. They knew who did it. At first he 
had suspected Henry, just like so many others around town. It was a 
terrible thought, but it was a terrible crime; there was no solution that 
would not be shocking. He had not been the one to question Charlie’s 
father, but he had read the transcript. The man had been almost 
incoherent, so shaken that he could not give straight answers. He 
sounded as if he were lying, and to most people that was proof enough. 
But Clay had resisted, had delayed having him arrested, and sure enough 
they came to William Afton, Henry’s partner. Afton seemed like the 
normal one in the venture, the businessman. Henry was the artist; he 
always seemed to be off in another world, some part of his mind thinking 
about his mechanical creatures even when he was holding a conversation 
about the weather or the kids’ soccer games. There was something off 
about Henry, something almost shell-shocked; it seemed like a miracle 
that he could have produced a child as apparently normal as Charlie. Clay remembered when Henry had moved to town and begun 
construction of the new restaurant. Someone had told him that Henry had 
a kid who had been abducted several years prior, but he didn’t know 
much else. He seemed like a nice enough guy, though he was obviously 
terribly alone, his grief visible even at a distance. Then Freddy Fazbear’s 
opened, and the town came alive. That was also when Charlie appeared. 
Clay hadn’t known Henry even had a daughter until that day. William Afton was the one who made Freddy’s a business, as he had 
the previous restaurant. Afton was as robust and lively as Henry was 
withdrawn and shadowy. He was a hefty man who had the ruddy 
geniality of a financially shrewd Santa Claus. And he had killed the 
children. Clay knew it; the whole department knew it. He had been present for each abduction, and he had mysteriously and briefly vanished 
at the same time as each child went missing. A search of his house had 
found a room crammed with boxes of mechanical parts and a musty 
yellow rabbit suit as well as stacks of journals full of raving paranoia, 
passages about Henry that ranged from wild jealousy to near worship. But there had been no evidence, there had been no bodies, and so 
there could be no charge. William Afton had left town, and there was 
nothing to stop him. They did not even know where he had gone. Clay 
picked up a picture from the pile; it had been taken, framed, from the 
wall of Henry’s office at the restaurant. It was a picture of the two of 
them together, Henry and William, grinning into the camera in front of 
the newly opened Freddy Fazbear’s. He stared at it; he had stared at it 
before. Henry’s eyes did not quite match his smile. The expression 
looked forced, but then, it always did. There was nothing unusual here, 
except that one of the men had turned out to be a killer. Suddenly, Clay felt a shock of recognition, something indistinct he 
could not quite catch. He closed his eyes, letting his mind wander like a 
dog off the lead: Go on, find it There was something about William, 
something familiar, something recent Clay’s eyes snapped open. He 
shoved everything back into the evidence box, cramming it in messily, 
keeping out only the photograph. Clutching it, he took the stairs up two 
at a time, almost running by the time he got to the main floor of the 
station. He headed straight for a particular filing cabinet, ignoring the 
greetings of his startled officers. He tore open the drawer, pawing 
through it until—there it was, employee background checks requested by 
businesses from the last six months. He pulled out the stack and flipped through it, looking for photos. In 
the third folder, he found it. He picked up the picture and held it up next 
to the one of Henry and William, turning so his body did not block the 
light. It’s him. The background check application was labeled “Dave Miller,” but it 
was unmistakably William Afton. Afton had been fat and affable; the 
man in the picture was sallow and thin, his skin sagging and his expression unpleasant, as if he had forgotten how to smile. He looked 
like a poor facsimile of himself. Or maybe, Clay thought, he looked like 
he had dropped his disguise. Clay flipped the page back to see why the check had been requested, 
and his face drained white, his breathing stopping for a moment. Clay 
stood, grabbing his jacket in the same motion, then stopped. Slowly, he 
sat, letting the jacket fall from his fingers. He took the partial file back 
out of its drawer, and delicately he lifted one of the photos out. It had 
been taken in the aftermath, when the place was no more than a crime 
scene. He paused for a moment and closed his eyes. Then he looked 
again at the picture, willing himself to see it as if for the first time. There was a glimmer of light he had never noticed before. One of the 
animatronics on the stage, the bear, Freddy, was looking toward the 
cameraman, one of his eyes illuminated with a smear of light. Clay put the picture aside, moving to the next one. This one was from 
a different angle, but the side of the main stage was still in the frame. 
Chica’s body was facing away from the camera, but her face was turned 
direcdy toward it, and another smear of light streaked across her left eye. 
Clay rubbed it with the tip of his finger, making sure it wasn’t a defect in 
the paper. The next photo showed Bonnie in the darkness behind the 
chairs. A pinpoint of light, like a star, shone from one of his eyes as 
though reflecting a spotlight that wasn’t there. What is this? Clay could 
feel his face flush; he realized he hadn’t been breathing. He shuffled his 
hands on the desk like a conjurer calling forth a picture to reveal itself. 
One did. The last picture had been taken in Pirate’s Cove. Tables had 
been disturbed, he remembered. The scene was chaotic: the tables and 
chairs in disarray, clutter strewn through the halls. But unlike so many 
other times he had stared at this picture, he ignored the disorder and 
focused only on the stage. The curtain was pulled back slightly, a figure 
barely visible in the recesses behind it, one eye presumably illuminated 
by the flash of a camera. Clay studied the rest of the pictures, looking for 
more reflections, but found none. There was no flash. 
Jason opened his eyes. His leg hurt; it was a steady, dull pain. He flexed 
it tentatively and found he could move easily; the injury could not be too 
bad. He was lying on something lumpy, and his whole body felt stiff, 
like he had been asleep on a pile of—he looked at what he was lying on 
—a pile of extension cords and wires. He sat up. It was dark, but he 
could dimly see what was around him. He bent over to examine his leg. 
His jeans were ripped where Foxy’s claw had gouged him, and the gash 
in his leg was ugly, but it was not bleeding badly. The hook had mostly 
got hold of his jeans. Jason felt a little relief. Satisfied, he began to 
examine his surroundings. He was in a corner, and there was a heavy 
black curtain strung from one wall to the other, cutting the space off from 
the room outside. He crawled forward over the cables cautiously, careful 
to make no sound. He made his way to the edge of the curtain, where 
there was a tiny sliver of a gap between it and the wall. Jason took a 
moment to steel himself, then peeked out, conscious of his every 
movement. He was on the small stage in Pirate’s Cove, behind the curtain. He 
could hear something moving out there, something large, but from his 
position he could see only an empty room. He pushed his head out a little 
farther, craning his neck to look. He couldn’t tell where the sound was 
coming from, but with each second he grew bolder, readying himself to 
leap from the stage and run. A light was pulsing in the main dining room, 
illuminating the hall for brief seconds at a time with bright, dizzying 
carnival colors. It wasn’t much, but it gave Jason a direction to run. He 
watched it intently until it was all he could see, and then it stopped. The 
room was dark, darker than it had been before—his eyes had adjusted to 
the light and now he was nearly blind. The shuffling sound went on, and 
Jason pulled the curtain open farther. This time he moved too fast, and as 
the curtain was drawn, the metal rings that held it clinked together. The light above Pirate’s Cove went on. Foxy was there, right in front of him, his face so close to Jason’s that 
they could almost touch. Jason scrambled back through the curtain, 
pulling it closed again, trying to escape the small alcove, but there was 
nowhere to run. He crawled backward, staying against the wall, hoping that the curtain would somehow shield him from Foxy. At once, the curtain began to open, not by force, but as if a show 
were about to begin. Lights and color flashed in silent patterns, and the 
glittered front curtains rolled back in grand fashion to reveal the stage, 
with the beast standing patiently at its base. Foxy cocked his head to the side as if considering something, and 
then he began his approach. He climbed the stairs to the stage one by 
one, each step a whole series of disjointed movements, as if each piece of 
his metal body maneuvered itself individually. Jason watched, struck 
with horror, yet some small part of him was enthralled; it was like 
nothing he had ever seen. Foxy reached the stage and took two more 
large, deliberate steps, until he was standing over Jason. Jason stared up 
at him, too afraid to move, frozen in place like a mouse beneath a diving 
falcon. His breath was shallow; his heart beat so fast his chest hurt. Foxy 
raised his hook again, and Jason threw himself down on the floor in a 
ball, protecting his head with his arms, waiting for the blow to come. It did not come. Jason did not move. He waited, and waited, wondering if time had 
slowed down as he approached the moment of his death, his mind trying 
to give him refuge, making the last moments feel as long as possible. But 
not this long. He opened his eyes and turned his head a little, keeping his 
arms in front of his face. Foxy was still there, not moving. Despite 
himself, Jason met the creature’s eyes. It was like looking into the sun— 
Foxy’s burning gaze made Jason’s eyes tear up, made him want to look 
away, but he could not. It was the animatronic who looked away. As 
Jason watched, peering through the afterburn that clouded his vision, 
Foxy turned to face his absent audience. His hook fell slowly to his side, 
his head tilted forward, and he went motionless. The sounds of whirring 
machinery and clicking parts came to a stop, and the curtains drew 
closed again. 

“Ready?” Lamar said. Marla nodded curtly. “I’m ready,” she said. She threw open the door, fists clenched, and they climbed out, facing opposite directions, preparing for an assault. 
Marla was breathing heavily, her face furious. The darkness was thick, 
almost tangible, and she could barely make out what was around her. She 
could see Lamar, but if they drifted three feet apart they would be lost to 
each other. The lights above them flickered, but only for a moment; the 
brief illumination ruined what little night vision they had, making the 
dark impenetrable. “Anything on your side?” Marla whispered. Lamar looked toward her 
voice, distressed. “No, anything on your side?” “Light, please,” Marla whispered. Lamar held up the flashlight as 
though aiming a weapon and turned it on. Above them, the lights 
sputtered. 
Jason could see their flashlight waving back and forth, filtering through 
the slightly transparent curtain. Oh no. The light fell on the animatronic, 
just for a moment, and there was a clicking noise. Jason looked up. Foxy 
was not moving. The light swept across him again, and again the 
mechanical sounds came, this time unmistakable, though he still did not 
move. Jason scooted forward, around Foxy’s foot, and looked up at the 
animatronic’s face as the light struck him again. Again the clicking noise 
came; something inside him was readying itself, but his eyes stayed dark. 
Jason crawled as far forward as he was willing to venture, trying not to 
cross into Foxy’s line of sight. He made it to the edge of the curtain and 
reached his arm out to wave a warning. “Jason!” He heard his sister’s voice, and then a quick shushing from 
what must have been Lamar. The flashlight swept up, trained on the 
stage, and Foxy’s eyes lit up. His head swept toward the light with a 
predatory precision, and Jason, panicked, reached for the pile of cords 
and grabbed a cable. Foxy lifted a foot, and Jason threw the cord around 
it and yanked with all his strength. Foxy pitched forward, grabbing at the 
curtain with his hook. It caught, ensnaring him, and he ripped through 
the cloth with a vicious tearing noise, falling to the ground in a tangle of cloth and metal limbs. Jason scrambled past the struggling creature and 
ran toward the light. Marla reached for him, but he brushed her aside. “Run,” he panted, and the three of them took off down the hall. They 
turned a corner, and as one they stopped, Jason skidding against Lamar 
and grabbing him for support. At the end of the dark hall stood another 
figure, too large to be a person. The top hat was unmistakable. Freddy Fazbear. His eyes were illuminated, their piercing red glow consuming the 
space around him. They could hear the brittle notes of a song, 
mechanical and thin like a music box, coming from Freddy’s direction. 
They stared, mesmerized, then Jason found himself and pulled at Marla’s 
arm. “Come on,” he hissed, and they followed him, running back the way 
they had come. When they reached Pirate’s Cove they slowed; Foxy had 
thrown off the curtain and was beginning to right himself. The three 
exchanged glances, then ran past him. Jason held his breath until they 
were through to the next doorway, invoking some old superstition. Lamar motioned to one of the party rooms, and they ducked inside. 
He switched off the flashlight, and they stood still for a moment, their 
eyes adjusting. The room had three long, cafeteria-style tables, each one 
still set for a party: Metal folding chairs were lined all up and down 
them, and each place was set with a party hat, a paper plate, and a plastic 
cup. By wordless agreement, each hid beneath a different table, leaving 
themselves as much space as possible. They crouched low, hoping to be 
lost behind the chair legs, and together they stared silently into the vacant 
hall and listened. 

“Hello? Anyone?” John repeated into the radio, but there was only static. 
He had managed to hook the walkie-talkie into the sound system, but 
getting a signal to the outside seemed impossible—Freddy’s was sealed 
off from the world. He looked at the monitors again. On one screen he 
could see three figures crouched under tables. Marla, Lamar, and Jason, he thought. They found Jason, he realized with profound relief, letting go 
of a tension he had not known he felt. Everything on-screen was lit with 
unnatural grays and whites. “These must be night-vision cameras,” he 
said to no one, squinting to see through the static. He watched the blurry 
figures crawl and come to a stop beneath the long party tables, then 
movement from another screen caught his eye. There was a figure in the hallway, moving steadily toward the room 
they were in. John could not tell what it was, but the way it moved 
wasn’t human. It stopped beside a doorway, and with a sudden jolt of 
realization John looked again at the party room where his friends were 
hiding. He grabbed the walkie-talkie and flipped the speaker system on, 
jamming the volume control as high as it would go. “Lamar,” he said calmly, trying to sound commanding. He heard the 
reverberation of his own voice through the walls of the control room. 
“Lamar, don’t move.” 

John’s voice blared over the speaker, blurred with static but intelligible. “Lamar, don’t move.” Lamar, Marla, and Jason looked at one another across the distance 
between the tables. The room lit up with a burning red glow, and they 
watched, as still as they could be, as Freddy Fazbear entered the room. 
His movements were mechanical and graceless as he walked with 
deliberate steps to the middle of the room and stopped between two 
tables; Marla on one side, Jason on the other. Jason looked at his sister, 
and she put a finger to her lips. Jason hadn’t realized that there were tears 
on his cheeks until now. He watched as Freddy surveyed the room. His head, with eyes like 
spotlights, whirred to one side, stopped with a click, and then turned to 
the other side. There was a long pause. The two padded feet were 
motionless, the legs like black trees in a forest. There was a sound of 
twisting fur and crinkling fabric, and the feet began to pivot. Freddy 
turned around and headed for the door, each step shaking the floor 
beneath him. As Freddy passed by, Jason shrank back instinctively, his foot hitting one of the metal chairs. It made a scraping sound. Jason’s 
heart raced. Frantic, he looked across the space at Marla, who beckoned 
to him urgently. Freddy had stopped, but they could still hear the sound 
of fabric and fur scrunching and moving. Freddy began to bend down. 
His motions were slow, and in those precious few seconds Jason pushed 
the two chairs in front of him apart, making a gap just wide enough for 
him to be able to crawl behind Freddy as soon as he had the chance. The 
light of Freddy’s eyes came into view under the table, illuminating the 
space beside Jason, and he quickly but quietly crawled between the 
chairs to where Marla was hiding. Freddy stood again, training his eyes 
on the floor just as Jason pulled his foot out of sight. Freddy began to pivot toward the table they were under. Marla put a 
hand on Jason’s arm, steadying him. There was another pause. Lamar, 
under the table opposite them, beckoned to Marla and Jason, urging them 
to his own table, farther away from Freddy. Marla shook her head, not 
wanting to risk making noise. Maybe he’s leaving, she told herself. Jason 
was beginning to breathe normally again when it struck them: Freddy 
was ducking down again, this time silently. His eyes had gone dark, but 
as soon as they spotted him, his gaze lit up again, illuminating the room. 
Marla and Jason scrambled around the metal chairs as fast as they could 
without touching them. They crawled across the thin carpet between 
tables until they came across an opening in the chairs and crawled under 
the table beside Lamar. Marla and Lamar looked at each other, at a loss; 
Freddy was straightened up again and beginning to circle around to the 
third table. “We have to run for the door,” Marla whispered. Lamar nodded, then 
motioned for them to follow his lead. He watched, waiting until Freddy 
was bending down once again, and then gestured to the middle table. 
They caught their breath, trying not to gasp, and Lamar looked toward 
the door. Could they make it? Marla put a hand on Jason’s shoulder, and 
he started to shrug her off, but she was gripping him tightly, her fingers 
digging into him. He moved to brush her away, then looked at her. She 
was terrified, even more than he was. He let her hold on to him while 
keeping his eyes on Freddy, waiting for their next opening. It didn’t come. As they waited, poised for flight, Freddy turned away, 
his deliberate steps taking him to the doorway. The room went dark, and 
Jason’s heart skipped before he understood what had happened. The 
lights were gone because Freddy was gone. “Marla,” he whispered, his voice little more than a breath of air. 
“He’s gone.” Marla looked at him and nodded, but she did not let go of 
his shoulder. “Are you okay?” she asked in the same almost soundless way. He 
nodded, then pointed to his leg and shrugged theatrically. She smiled at 
him and took her hand from his shoulder to muss his hair. Suddenly Lamar was tapping Marla’s arm. He pointed to his ear, and 
she gave him a puzzled look. Jason stiffened, realizing what it was, and 
in a second Marla did, too. There was music in the room, a tinny, labored 
sound like a music box, the gaps between the notes just a little too long. 
The room lit up again, a drowning red, and before they could move, the 
table was wrenched away. Freddy stood over them. He shoved the table 
aside, almost hurling it. They screamed—not a scream for help but the 
last, futile act of defiance. Jason clung to his sister, and she pulled his 
head down against her, shielding his eyes so he would not have to see. Suddenly, Freddy stumbled off-balance and lurched to the side. He 
tried to right himself, but another jolt from behind sent him flying 
forward, falling face-first into the tables. Marla, Lamar, and Jason looked 
up to see Charlie and John, their faces flushed with effort. “Come on,” Charlie said. “Let’s go.” 
Dave shrugged out of his bonds quickly; the knots were sturdy, but the 
cords had too much give—a few twists and turns and he was free. He 
crawled to the door on hands and knees and held his ear to the crack, 
careful not to jostle the door and give himself away. The loudspeaker blared, and then the sound he had been waiting for: 
footsteps, running away. He waited just until the sound faded, then got purposefully to his feet. 
“Where are we going?” Marla panted as they raced back toward the main 
dining room. “The office,” Charlie called. “It’s got a real door; we can barricade 
ourselves in.” She glanced at John, who nodded shortly. What they 
would do once they were barricaded inside was another question, but 
they could worry about that once they were safe. They ran through the 
dining room; Charlie glanced at the stage, blurred in passing, but she saw 
what she knew she would: It was empty. They reached the narrow hall that led to the office, and Charlie’s 
heart lifted when she saw the door, light shining from its small window 
like a beacon. Wait, light? She slowed her pace; they were ten feet from the door. She lifted a 
hand, signaling the others to stop, and they approached the door slowly. 
Steeling herself, Charlie grabbed the knob and turned. It was locked. She 
looked helplessly at the others. “Someone’s in there,” Jason whispered, moving closer to Marla. “There’s no one else here,” Marla said softly, but it sounded like a 
question. Charlie was about to try the door again, but stopped herself. 
Don’t draw their attention. “He got loose!” Jessica said, her voice hoarse, and Charlie felt a chill. 
She’s right. She didn’t say it. “We have to go back,” she said. Without waiting for a response, she 
turned, pushing between Lamar and John to take the lead. She took two 
steps forward, then stopped dead as she heard the others gasp. It was Chica, her eyes like burning orange headlights. She stood at the other end of the short hall, blocking their only way 
out. Her body filled the space; they could not even try to run past her. 
Charlie glanced behind her, even though she knew there was no other 
way out. Before she could react, John was running at the animatronic. He 
had no weapons, but he hurtled himself toward the thing and leaped up, 
trying to grab hold of her neck. He caught it briefly, struggling to hold on 
as Chica thrashed her head back and forth. Chica bent forward and swung to the side, slamming John into the wall, and John let go, 
crumpling to the floor. The cupcake on Chica’s platter snapped its mouth 
as if laughing, its eyes rolling in their tiny sockets. “John!” Charlie cried as she thrust the flashlight back for someone 
else to take. She felt its weight leave her hands, but she didn’t look back 
to see who took it. She looked up; there was an electrical cord dangling 
above their heads. Parts of the rubber had worn away, exposing stretches 
of bare wire. Chica was slowly advancing. Charlie jumped up, but she 
could not get high enough to reach it. She looked to either side. Is it 
narrow enough? She glanced at Chica. She was moving slowly, with 
measured steps; they were trapped, and she did not need to hurry. Charlie 
planted one foot against the wall, then stretched her leg across the narrow 
hallway and did the same on the other side, bracing between the walls to 
climb. She inched upward, her legs shaking with the effort. She looked 
up, struggling to retain her balance as she reached for the cord. Careful to 
touch only the rubber, she closed her fingers around it and dropped to the 
ground. Chica lunged forward, her arms extended and her teeth contorted 
in a mechanical smile. Charlie sprang up, the electrical cord brandished in front of her, and 
she shoved it into the space between Chica’s head and her torso. Chica 
jerked backward, sparks flying, and for a horrible moment Charlie could 
not move. Her hand throbbed with the electric current, and she was 
caught there, unable to make her hand let go of the wire. She stared down 
at it, willing her fingers to open. Is this how I die? Lamar grabbed her 
and pulled her away, and she looked up at him wide-eyed. The others 
were already running. Chica was deactivated, or so it appeared, slumped 
forward, her eyes dark. Lamar gave her arm a tug, and they took off after 
the others. 

With a pleased smile, Dave watched the confrontation through the 
window in the office door. Just a matter of time now, he thought. The 
girl had been clever, climbing the walls like that, but she had almost 
killed herself. They could not last much longer. All he had to do was wait. Suddenly, the room was lit with an ethereal blue. He froze, then 
slowly turned. Bonnie. The animatronic towered over him, close enough 
to touch. Dave fell back against the door and screamed. 
There was a scream from the direction of the office. The group paused 
for a minute and looked nervously at one another. “It doesn’t matter,” Charlie said. “Come on.” She took a quick look back at Chica, who was still slumped forward, 
inert. Charlie led them into the main dining room. As they emerged, 
there was a sudden movement. Foxy was there. He leaped onto a table in front of them, looking among them until his 
silver eyes lit on Jason. He crouched as if he were about to jump on the 
boy, and Charlie grabbed a napkin dispenser and threw it as hard as she 
could. It struck Foxy’s head, glancing off with little effect, but it was 
enough to get his attention. He turned to her and pounced. Charlie was already running, racing to lure him away from the others. 
Then what? she thought as she ran furiously out of the dining room and 
down the hall. The arcade. It was dark; there were things to hide behind. She kept running full-out until she reached the door, then turned so 
fast she almost fell, hoping to give Foxy a moment’s disorientation. She 
looked around frantically. There was a row of arcade machines at the 
back of the room, set out just a little from the wall. She heard footsteps 
behind her and dove for it. The space was so tight she could barely squeeze herself into it. Her 
sides were pressed between the consoles and the wall, and there were 
thick, coiled wires beneath her feet. She took a step back, moving deeper 
into the crawl space, but her foot slipped on a cable, and she barely kept 
from falling. Movement in the room caught her eye, and she saw a flash 
of silver light. He sees me. Charlie dropped to her hands and knees. She crawled backward, 
scooting inch by inch. Her foot caught on a cable and she stopped to free it, twisting into an impossible position to quietly dislodge it. She moved 
back farther, and then her foot bumped against another wall, and she 
stopped. She was closed in on three sides; it almost felt safe. She closed 
her eyes for a moment. Nothing here is safe. There was an awful sound, a clash of metal hitting metal, and the 
console at the far end of the row rocked on its foundation, banging back 
against the wall. Foxy leaned over it, and now Charlie could see him as 
he smashed the display, spilling shards of plastic onto the floor. His hook 
caught on something inside the machine, and he yanked it out again, 
trailing bits of wire. He moved on to the next game, smashing the screen and throwing the 
console against the wall with a casual brutality. Charlie felt the impact of 
it echoing through the wall as he moved closer. I have to get out. I have to! But there was no way out. Now that she 
was sitting in one place, she realized that her arm was stiff with pain, and 
only now did she look at it. The bandage was soaked through with blood; 
the wall beside her was streaked with a line of it where her arm had 
pressed. She wanted to cry suddenly. Her whole body ached. The wound 
in her arm, the constant tension of the last day or so—who could tell how 
long it had been?—was draining her, taking all she had. The next console crashed against the wall, and Charlie flinched. It 
was only two away. He was almost to her. She could hear his gears 
working, humming, grinding, and sometimes screeching. She closed her 
eyes, but she could still see him: his matted fur, the metal bones showing 
through, the searing silver eyes. The console beside her was wrenched away and tumbled to the 
ground like it weighed nothing at all. The cords beneath Charlie’s hands 
and knees jerked forward with it, and she slipped, grabbing at nothing, 
trying to regain her balance. She caught herself and looked up just in 
time to see the downward swing of a hook. She moved faster than she could think. She hurled herself at the final 
console with all her strength, and it balanced precariously, then fell, 
knocking Foxy to the ground and trapping him. Charlie started to run, 
but his hook shot out and snared her leg, cutting into her. She screamed, falling to the ground. She kicked at him with her other foot, but his hook 
was stuck deep in her leg; every time he jerked back she felt the impact. 
She kicked him in the face, and his hook tore free, slicing open her leg. 
She screamed again, instinctively grabbing the wound, and then Foxy 
was on top of her, snapping his jaws and clawing her as he tried to free 
his legs from under the console. She fought back, struggling to get away. 
His hook slashed at her again and again as she tried to block the blows, 
screaming for help. Suddenly John was there. He stood over Foxy and stomped down 
hard on the creature’s neck, holding his foot there. Foxy flailed but could 
not reach him. “Charlie, get up!” he called. Charlie just stared at him for a second, 
too shaken to register the question. He stamped his foot on Foxy’s neck 
repeatedly, and then in one quick movement, he grabbed Charlie’s hand, 
heaved her up, and started to run, pulling her along behind him. They 
made it to the main dining room, where the rest of the group was huddled 
in the middle of the room. Relieved, Charlie rushed to join them. She 
could tell she was limping, but she did not feel any pain, which, she 
realized somewhere dimly in the back of her mind, was not good. When 
they got to the others, her heart sank. Their faces were grim. Lamar was 
holding the flashlight out in front of him, but it rattled in his trembling 
grip. Marla gestured quickly to the entrances. Freddy stood in the hall to 
the storage room, while Bonnie now blocked the hallway to the office. 
Chica, reanimated, stood on the stage, looming over them. Charlie 
glanced back the way they had come. Foxy was approaching; he had freed himself. He stopped in the 
doorway as if waiting for a signal. There was no escape. Suddenly 
acutely aware of everything around her, Charlie noticed the sound of a 
music box, as if she had, unconsciously, been hearing it all along. She 
took a deep breath. The moment seemed to go on forever. It had come to 
this; they were trapped. They waited. Now, perhaps, for the 
animatronics, there was no hurry. Charlie cast her eyes around futilely 
for a weapon, but there were only party hats and paper plates. As one, the animatronics started their approach. Charlie grabbed the 
back of a metal folding chair, not sure how she could even use it. The 
animals were moving faster now, coming in unison, as if this battle were 
a choreographed dance. Marla took Jason’s hand and whispered 
something in his ear. Whatever it was, he shook his head, set his jaw, and 
balled his hands into fists. Lamar glanced at him for a moment but said 
nothing. Jessica had her hands stiffly at her sides, and she was 
murmuring something to herself inaudibly. The animals were almost on 
top of them. Freddy’s trundling walk was predatory, and the music box 
notes were coming from Freddy’s direction—from inside Freddy, she 
now realized. Chica leaped from the stage and took small, bouncing steps 
toward them as if excited but holding herself back. Bonnie’s big, paw¬ 
like feet slapped the ground like a challenge, and Foxy slunk forth with a 
malevolent grace, his eyes fixed on Charlie as if she were the only thing 
he saw. She gazed into his silver eyes. They filled her vision, crowding 
out everything else until the world was silver, the world was Foxy’s 
eyes, and there was nothing left of her. John squeezed her hand. It broke the spell; she looked at him, her 
vision still cloudy. “Charlie,” he said haltingly. “... Charlotte—” “Shh,” she said. “Later.” He nodded, accepting the lie that there 
would be a later. Foxy crouched down again, and Charlie let go of John, 
her heart pounding as she braced for it. Foxy’s joints shifted in their 
sockets as he prepared to spring—then he stopped. Charlie waited. There 
were no screams from behind her, no sounds of fighting; even the music 
box was silent. Foxy was motionless, though his eyes still glowed. 
Charlie looked around, and then she saw. It was Freddy. Not the one they all knew, not the one who stood less 
than a foot away from Marla, his mouth open as if poised to bite. It was 
the other one, the one she remembered, the yellow Freddy from the 
diner. The costume her father used to wear. It was looking at them, 
staring from the corner, and now she heard something. It was indistinct, 
just whispers in her head, a gentle susurrus, blowing through her 
conscious mind without taking hold. She looked at the others and knew they heard it, too. It was indecipherable, but the meaning was 
unmistakable. Carlton was the one to say it: “Michael?” The sounds they heard grew warm, an unspoken confirmation, and 
together they approached the golden bear. Marla brushed past brown 
Freddy as if he were not there, and Charlie turned her back to Foxy, 
unafraid. There was only one thought in her mind: Michael It’s you. They were almost to him. All Charlie wanted to do was fling her 
arms around him, hold him close, and to be again the little girl she was 
so long ago. To embrace him again, this beloved child who had been 
ripped from their lives on that carefree afternoon. To do it all over, and 
this time to rescue him, this time to save his life. “Michael,” she whispered. The yellow bear stood motionless. Unlike the others, there seemed to 
be nothing inside of it; it stood of its own accord, by its own will. There 
was nothing to hold the costumed jaw closed, and its eyes were empty. Suddenly aware that their backs were to the other animals, Charlie 
startled and turned, apprehensive. Freddy, Bonnie, Chica, and Foxy 
stood at rest, almost as if they were back on their stages. Their eyes were 
locked on Charlie, but they had halted their approach. “It’s the kids,” Carlton whispered. “Foxy wasn’t attacking Jason,” Marla gasped. “Foxy was trying to 
protect him.” John took hesitant steps toward the middle of the dining room, then 
approached more boldly, looking at each of the robots in turn. “It’s the 
kids,” he echoed. “All of them.” Their faces were no longer animalistic, 
no longer lifeless, as if some spirit inhabited them. Suddenly, there was a crash from the sealed exit door. They all startled, turning as one as the wall beside the welded 
entrance shook with the force of a dozen blows. Now what? Charlie thought. The bricks broke and fell, scattering in pieces across the floor, dust 
filling the air in rusty clouds. A figure stepped through the hole wielding a massive sledgehammer, and as the air slowly cleared, they saw who it 
was: Clay Burke, Carlton’s father. His eyes set on Carlton, and he dropped the hammer and ran to his 
son, sweeping him into an embrace. Clay stroked his hair, gripping him 
like he would never let go. Charlie watched from her distance, relief 
touched by a stiletto edge of envy. “Dad, I’m gonna puke,” Carlton murmured. Clay laughed but leaned 
back when he saw that Carlton wasn’t kidding. Carlton bent over, hands 
on his knees, fighting the urge to retch, and Clay’s face took on alarm. 
Carlton straightened. “I’m good.” Clay was not listening anymore. He was looking around the room, at 
the animals. All of them were frozen in time, displaced. “Okay, kids,” Clay said, his voice low and his words careful. “I think 
it’s time for us to go.” He started toward the exit he had made. They glanced at one another. The whispers were gone. Whatever he 
had been, the yellow Freddy was slouched again, an empty suit, though 
no one had seen it move. Charlie nodded toward Clay, and the rest 
started forward, heading almost reluctantly to the hole in the wall. 
Charlie hung back. John stayed beside her, but she gestured him forward, 
taking up the rear. She had barely had time to take a step when something took hold of 
her throat. Charlie tried to cry out, but her windpipe was being crushed. She was 
whipped around as if she weighed nothing, and she found herself face-to- 
face with the yellow rabbit. Dave’s eyes were shining through, 
triumphant. He had his arm around her neck, squeezing her throat so 
tighdy that she could scarcely breathe. He held her so close it was almost 
an embrace. She could smell the costume, stained fur and years of putrid 
sweat, blood, and cruelty. He spoke, still staring at Charlie. “You are staying.” “Absolutely not,” Clay said, taking on the group’s authority. Dave dug his fingers deeper into Charlie’s neck, and she made a 
strangled sound. “I will kill this one, right here, while you watch, unless you do as I 
say,” he said, and his voice was almost pleasant. Clay looked at him for a 
long moment, calculating, then nodded. “Okay,” he said, his voice calm. “We’ll do as you say. What do you 
want?” “Good,” Dave said. He relaxed his grip on Charlie’s neck, and she 
took a shaky breath. Clay began to move toward them, and the others 
followed. Charlie looked up at the man in the rabbit suit, and he met her 
gaze. It was you. You killed Michael. You killed Sammy. You took them 
from me. His eyes should have held something fierce and dangerous. 
They should have been windows to the rotten core inside. But they were 
only eyes, flat and empty. Charlie plunged her hands into the gap beneath the costume’s head. 
Dave drew back, but she held on. “If you want to be one of them, then be one of them!” she shouted, 
and she tripped the spring locks. Dave’s eyes widened, and then he 
screamed. Charlie jerked her hands free, barely evading the locks as they 
snapped open and plunged into his neck. She took a step back, watching 
as Dave crumpled to the ground, still screaming as the costume released. 
Part by part, the animatronic insides pierced his flesh, ripping up his 
organs, tearing through his body as if it were not even there. At some 
point he stopped screaming, but he still writhed on the floor for what felt 
like long minutes before he was still. Charlie stared, breathing hard as if she had been running. The form 
on the ground seemed unreal. John was the first to move. He came beside 
her, but, still staring down, she waved him off before he could touch her. 
She could not bear it if he did. Jessica gasped, and they all looked up. The animatronics were 
moving. The group drew back, huddling together, but none of the 
animals were looking at them. One by one they took hold of the broken 
body on the floor and began to drag it away toward the hall to Pirate’s 
Cove. As they disappeared down the hallway, Charlie noticed that the 
yellow Freddy was gone. “Let’s go,” she said quietly. Clay Burke nodded, and they filed out of the restaurant for the last 
time. 
The sun was rising as they emerged into the open air. Clay put his arm around Carlton’s shoulder, and for once Carlton 
didn’t brush him away with a joke. Charlie nodded absently, blinking in 
the light. “Carlton and I are taking a drive to the ER,” Clay continued. 
“Is there anyone else who needs a doctor?” “I’m fine,” Charlie said reflexively. “Jason, do you need to go to the hospital?” Marla asked. “No,” he said. “Let’s see your leg,” she insisted. The party stopped as Jason held his 
leg out for Clay to examine. Charlie felt an odd relief wash through her. 
A grown-up was in charge now. After a moment, Clay looked up at 
Jason with a serious face. “I don’t think we’re going to have to cut it off,” he said. “Not just 
yet.” Jason smiled, and Clay turned to Marla. “I’ll take care of him. It 
might leave a scar, but that’ll just make him look tough.” Marla nodded and winked at Jason, who laughed. “I need to change my clothes,” Charlie said. It seemed like a petty thing to be worrying about, but her shirt and pants were wet with blood 
in some places, dry and stiff in others. It was beginning to itch. “You’re a mess,” Carlton pointed out redundantly. “Will she get a 
ticket if she drives like that?” “Charlie, are you sure you don’t need to go to the hospital?” Marla 
said, turning her laser-like concern on her friend now that her brother had 
been declared safe. “I’m fine,” Charlie said again. “I just need to change my clothes. 
We’ll stop at the motel.” When they reached the cars, they split into what had become their 
habitual groups: Marla, Jason, and Lamar in Marla’s car; Charlie, John, 
and Jessica in Charlie’s. Charlie opened the door to the driver’s side and 
stopped, looking back at the building. It wasn’t just her; out of the corner 
of her eye she could see them all gazing at it. The empty mall was dark 
against the pink-streaked sky, long and squat, like something brutish and 
slumbering. They all turned away, getting into the cars without speaking. 
Charlie kept her eyes on it, watching as she started her car, waiting to 
turn her back to it until the last possible moment. She pulled out of the 
lot and drove away. Along the road, the cars split off. Clay and Carlton took the other turn 
out of the parking lot, heading to the hospital, and Charlie turned off 
toward the motel while Marla continued to the Burkes’ house. “I call first shower!” Jessica said as they got out of the car, then, 
seeing Charlie’s face, “I’ll make a special exception in your case. You go 
first.” Charlie nodded. In the room, she grabbed her bag and took it into the 
bathroom with her, leaving John and Jessica to wait. She locked the door 
behind her and undressed, deliberately not looking at the gashes on her 
arm and leg. She didn’t need to see what was there, just to clean and 
bandage it. She got into the shower and let out a quiet yelp as the 
stinging water hit her open cuts, but she gritted her teeth and cleaned 
herself, washing her hair over and over until it was rinsed clean. She got out and toweled herself dry, then sat down on the edge of the 
tub, put her face in her hands, and closed her eyes. She was not ready to go out yet, not ready to face whatever 
aftermath, whatever discussion there might have to be. She wanted to 
walk out of this bathroom and never speak again of what had happened. 
She rubbed her temples. She didn’t have a headache, but there was 
pressure inside there, something that had yet to emerge. You can’t stay here forever. Charlie still had the gauze and tape from the first time around, so she 
took it from her bag, wiped both wounds clean with a hotel towel, and 
bound up her arm and leg, using all the gauze. I probably need stitches, 
she thought, but it was only an idle thought. She would not do it. She got 
up and went to look in the mirror. There was a cut across her cheek; it 
had stopped bleeding, but it was ugly. She didn’t know how she could 
cover it, but she didn’t really want to, for the same reason she didn’t 
want stitches. She wanted them to heal wrong, wanted them to scar. She 
wanted proof, displayed on her body: This happened. This was real. This 
is what it did to me. She dressed quickly in her jeans and her last remaining clean T-shirt 
and emerged from the bathroom to find Jessica and John carrying 
suitcases out to the car. “I figured there was no point leaving stuff here,” Jessica said. “We’re 
all going in the morning; we may as well bring it all to Carlton’s.” 
Charlie nodded and grabbed Jason’s backpack, taking it out to the car 
along with her own. 
Carlton and his father were already back by the time they arrived, and 
again they entered Carlton’s living room, now almost familiar. Carlton 
was curled up in an armchair by the fireplace, where someone had lit a 
fire, and Marla and Lamar were on the couch. Jason sat right in front of 
the fireplace, staring in at the licking flames. Charlie sat down near him, 
arranging herself stiffly. John joined her, looking at her with concern, but 
she ignored him, and he said nothing. “Are you okay?” Charlie asked, reaching up and rubbing Carlton’s 
arm for a moment. He looked at her sleepily. “Yeah, it’s a mild concussion,” he said. “I’ll be fine as long as no one 
else tries to murder me.” “So ... now what?” Jessica asked as she took the chair beside Carlton. 
“I mean—” She paused, searching for words. “What happens?” she said 
finally. They looked at each other; it was the question they all had. What 
do you do after something like this ? Charlie looked at Clay, who was 
standing in the doorway, only half in the room. “Mr.—Clay, what happens now?” she said quietly. He looked off into 
the distance for a minute before answering. “Well, Charlie, I’m going to go back to Freddy’s. I have to get my 
officer,” he said gravely. “I won’t go alone.” He forced a smile, but no 
one joined him. “What do you think should happen?” he asked. He was 
looking at Charlie, asking her this impossible question as if she could 
answer it. She nodded, accepting responsibility. “Nothing,” she said. “It’s over. I want to leave it that way.” Clay gave her a nod, his face impassive. She could not tell if it was 
the answer he was looking for, but it was all she had. The others were 
silent. Marla and Lamar were nodding, but Jessica looked like she 
wanted to protest. “Jessica, what?” Charlie said gently, realizing with unease that her 
friend wanted her permission to disagree. “It just seems wrong,” she said. “What about ... everything? I mean, 
people should know, right? That’s how it works. That guard, he 
murdered all those kids, and people should know!” “No one will believe us,” Jason said without looking up. “Officer Dunn,” Jessica said. “Officer Dunn, he died in there! What 
will you tell his family? Will you tell them the truth?” She looked at 
Clay. “Officer Dunn died at the hands of the same man who killed your 
friends. I can prove that now.” A silence fell over the room. “It won’t 
bring them back,” Clay said softly. “But maybe it will give them some 
rest.” Clay turned his eyes to the fire, and a few minutes passed before he 
spoke again. “You kids have been carrying Freddy’s with you all these years. It’s 
time you left it behind,” he said. He was stern, but his commanding tone 
was reassuring. “I’m going to see to it that Officer Dunn is given a 
proper burial.” He paused, collecting himself, as though what he said 
next required effort. “Your friends, too.” His brow furrowed. “I have a 
few favors to call in, but I can make this happen quietly. The last thing I 
want to do is disturb that place, or desecrate it. Those kids need rest.” 
The next morning they began to go their separate ways. Marla offered to 
drive Lamar and Jessica to the bus station, and they said their good-byes 
with hugs and promises to write. Charlie wondered if any of them meant 
it. Marla probably did, at least. They pulled out of the Burkes’ driveway. “So my bus isn’t till later,” John said as Marla’s car disappeared 
around a bend in the road. “I wouldn’t mind a few more hours in Hurricane,” Charlie answered. 
To her surprise, she realized it was true. John flashed her a quick, almost nervous smile. “Okay, then,” he said. “Let’s get out of there. Let’s go somewhere, anywhere.” When they were alone in the car, John gave her a sideways glance. “So,” he said, “are we ever going to see each other after this?” He 
tried to say it lightly, but there was no way to lighten it. Charlie stared 
straight ahead. “Maybe,” she said. She could not look at him. It wasn’t the answer he 
wanted, she knew that, but she could not give him what he wanted. What 
could she say by way of explanation? It’s not you, it’s the weight we both 
bear. It’s too much. When you are here, I can’t ignore it. But something in her thoughts felt off, not quite right, as if she were 
speaking by rote, thinking off a script. It was like flinching instinctively 
to protect an injury before remembering it had healed. She finally looked 
at John beside her. He was staring through the windshield, his jaw set. “I have somewhere I need to go,” she said abruptly, then made a slow 
U-turn. She had never gone to visit the place, but now, without warning, her mind was consumed by it. Aunt Jen had never suggested it; Charlie 
had never asked. She knew where it was, though, and now she headed 
there with a singular sense of purpose. I need to see. 

Charlie pulled to a stop in a small gravel parking lot beside a low fence 
of short white posts, chains swinging between them. “I just need a minute,” she said. John gave her a concerned look. “Are you sure you want to do this now?” he said softly. She did not 
answer, just got out of the car, closing the door behind her. The graveyard before them was almost a hundred years old. There 
were hills of lush grass and shading trees. This corner was at the edge of 
the cemetery; there was a small house only a few yards past the edge of 
the fence. The grass was trimmed neatly, but it was patchy and 
yellowing. The trees had been pruned too far so the lower branches were 
bare, too exposed. There was a telephone pole set just inside the fence, barely on the 
cemetery grounds, and beside it were two headstones, plain and small. 
Charlie stared at it for a long moment, not moving. She tried to conjure 
up the right feeling: grief and loss so that she could mourn. Instead, she 
just felt a numbness. The graves were there, but the sight did not touch 
her. She took a deep breath and started toward them. It was such a small memory, one of those moments that meant 
nothing at the time, just one day in a series of days, the same as all the 
others. They were together, just the two of them, and it must have been 
before everything, before Fredbear’s went wrong, before anyone was 
dead. They were sitting out back behind Fredbear’s, looking out over the 
hills, and a crow landed and began pecking in the dirt, looking for 
something. There was something about its sharp, darting movements that 
struck her as the funniest thing she had ever seen. Charlie began to 
laugh, and her father looked at her. She pointed, and he turned his head, 
trying to see as she did, but he could not tell what she was pointing at. 
She could not get it across to him, she did not know the words, and just as her excitement was about to turn to frustration, he saw it, too. 
Suddenly he laughed and pointed to the crow. Charlie nodded, and he 
met her eyes, looking at her with an expression of pure, boundless 
delight, as if it would fill him to bursting. “Oh, Charlotte, ” he said. Turn the page for sneak peek at the next thrilling book in the series, The Twisted Ones l Don’t trust your eyes.” Dr. Treadwell walked back and forth across the platform at the front 
of the auditorium. Her steps were slow and even, almost hypnotic. “Your eyes deceive you every day, filling in the blanks for you in a 
world of sensory overload.” An image of dizzying geometric detail lit up 
the canvas screen behind her. “When I say ‘sensory overload’ I mean 
that quite literally. At every moment, your senses are receiving far more 
information than they can process all at once, and your mind is forced to 
choose which signals to pay attention to. It does that based on your 
experiences, and your expectation of what is normal. The things we are 
familiar with are the things we can—for the most part—ignore. We see 
this most easily with olfactory fatigue: your nose ceases to perceive a 
smell when you’ve been around it for a while. You may be quite thankful 
for this phenomenon, depending on the habits of your roommate.” The class tittered dutifully, then became quiet as the image of another 
multicolored design flashed onto the screen. The professor gave a hint of a smile and continued. “Your mind creates motion when there is none. It fills in colors and 
trajectories based on what you’ve seen before, and calculates what you 
should be seeing now.” Another image flashed onto the overhead screen. 
“If your mind didn’t do this, then simply walking outside and seeing a 
tree would consume all your mental energy, leaving no resources to do 
anything else. In order for you to function in the world, your mind fills in 
the spaces of that tree with its own leaves and branches.” A hundred 
pencils scribbled all at once, filling the lecture hall with a sound like 
scurrying mice. “It’s why when you enter a house for the first time you experience a 
moment of dizziness. Your mind is taking in more than usual. It’s 
drawing a floor plan, creating a palette of colors, and saving an inventory 
of images to draw on later, so you don’t have to go through that 
exhausting intake every single time. The next time you enter that same 
house, you’ll already know where you are.” “Charlie! ” An urgent voice whispered her name, inches from her ear. 
Charlie kept writing. She was staring straight ahead at the display at the 
front of the lecture hall. As Dr. Treadwell went on, she paced faster, 
occasionally flinging an arm toward the screen to illustrate her point. Her 
words seemed to be falling behind as her mind raced on ahead; Charlie 
had realized by the second day of classes that her professor sometimes 
broke off in the middle of one sentence, only to finish an entirely 
different one. It was like she skimmed the text in her head, reading out a 
few words here and there. Most of the students in her robotics class 
found it maddening, but Charlie liked it. It made the lesson kind of like 
doing a puzzle. The screen flashed again, displaying an assortment of mechanical 
parts and a diagram of an eye. “This is what you must re-create.” Dr. 
Treadwell stepped back from the image, turning to look at it with the 
class. “Basic artificial intelligence is all about sensory control. You 
won’t be dealing with a mind that can filter these things out for itself. 
You must design programs that recognize basic shapes, while discarding 
unimportant information. You must do for your robot what your own 
mind does for you: create a simplified and organized assembly of information based on what’s relevant. Let’s start by looking at some 
examples of basic shape recognition.” “Charlie,” hissed the voice again, and she waved her pencil 
impatiendy at the figure peering over her shoulder—her friend Arty— 
trying to shoo him away. The gesture cost her a moment, put her half a 
step behind the professor. She hurried to catch up, anxious not to miss a 
single line. The paper in front of her was covered in formulas, notes in the 
margins, sketches, and diagrams. She wanted to get everything down all 
at once: not just the math, but all the things it made her think of. If she 
could tie the new facts to things she already knew, she’d retain it much 
more easily. She felt hungry for it, alert, watching for new tidbits of 
information like a dog under the dinner table. A boy near the front raised his hand to ask a question, and Charlie 
felt a brief flare of impatience. Now the whole class would have to stop 
while Treadwell went back to explain a simple concept. Charlie let her 
mind wander, sketching absently in the margins of her notebook. John would be here in—she glanced restlessly at her watch—an hour. 
I told him maybe someday we'll see each other again. I guess it’s 
someday. He had called out of the blue: “I’m just going to be passing 
through,” he said, and Charlie hadn’t bothered to ask how he knew where 
she was. Of course he would know. There was no reason not to meet him, 
and she found herself alternately excited and filled with dread. Now, as 
she absently sketched rectangular forms along the bottom of her note 
paper, her stomach jumped, a little spasm of nerves. It felt like a lifetime 
since she last saw him. Sometimes, it felt like she’d seen him yesterday, 
as if the last year hadn’t passed. But of course it had, and everything had 
changed for Charlie once again. That May, the night of her eighteenth birthday, the dreams had 
begun. Charlie was long accustomed to nightmares, the worst moments 
of her past forced up like bile, into twisted versions of memories already 
too terrible to recall. She shoved these dreams into the back of her mind 
in the morning and sealed them away, knowing they would only breach it 
when night fell again. These dreams were different. When she woke, she was physically 
exhausted: not just drained but sore, her muscles weak. Her hands were 
stiff and aching, like they’d been clenched into fists for hours. These new 
dreams didn’t come every night, but when they did, they interrupted her 
regular nightmares and took them over. It didn’t matter if she was 
running and screaming for her life, or wandering aimlessly through a dull mishmash of the various places she’d been all week. Suddenly, from 
nowhere, she would sense him: Sammy, her lost twin brother, was near. She knew he was present the same way she knew that she was 
present, and whatever the dream was, it dropped away—people, places, 
light, and sound. Now she was searching for him in the darkness, calling 
his name. He never answered. She would drop to her hands and knees, 
feeling her way through the dark, letting his presence guide her until she 
came to a barrier. It was smooth and cold, metal. She couldn’t see it, but 
she hit it hard with one fist and it echoed. “Sammy?” she would call, 
hitting harder. She stood, reaching up to see if she could scale the slick 
surface, but it stretched up far above her head. She beat her fists against 
the barricade until they hurt. She screamed her brother’s name until her 
throat was raw, until she fell to the floor and leaned on the solid metal, 
pressing her cheek to its cool surface and hoping for a whisper from the 
other side. He was there; she knew it as surely as if he were a part of 
herself. She knew in those dreams that he was present. Worse, when she was 
awake, she knew he was not there.

Don’t trust your eyes.”
Dr. Treadwell walked back and forth across the platform at the front of the
auditorium. Her steps were slow and even, almost hypnotic.
“Your eyes deceive you every day, filling in the blanks for you in a world
of sensory overload.” An image of dizzying geometric detail lit up the canvas
screen behind her. “When I say ‘sensory overload’ I mean that quite literally.
At every moment, your senses are receiving far more information than they
can process all at once, and your mind is forced to choose which signals to
pay attention to. It does that based on your experiences, and your expectation
of what is normal. The things we are familiar with are the things we can—for
the most part—ignore. We see this most easily with olfactory fatigue: your
nose ceases to perceive a smell when you’ve been around it for a while. You
may be quite thankful for this phenomenon, depending on the habits of your
roommate.”
The class tittered dutifully, then became quiet as the image of another
multicolored design flashed onto the screen.
The professor gave a hint of a smile and continued.
“Your mind creates motion when there is none. It fills in colors and
trajectories based on what you’ve seen before, and calculates what you should
be seeing now.” Another image flashed onto the overhead screen. “If your
mind didn’t do this, then simply walking outside and seeing a tree would
consume all your mental energy, leaving no resources to do anything else. In
order for you to function in the world, your mind fills in the spaces of that tree
with its own leaves and branches.” A hundred pencils scribbled all at once,
filling the lecture hall with a sound like scurrying mice.

“It’s why when you enter a house for the first time you experience a
moment of dizziness. Your mind is taking in more than usual. It’s drawing a
floor plan, creating a palette of colors, and saving an inventory of images to
draw on later, so you don’t have to go through that exhausting intake every
single time. The next time you enter that same house, you’ll already know
where you are.”
“Charlie!” An urgent voice whispered her name, inches from her ear.
Charlie kept writing. She was staring straight ahead at the display at the front
of the lecture hall. As Dr. Treadwell went on, she paced faster, occasionally
flinging an arm toward the screen to illustrate her point. Her words seemed to
be falling behind as her mind raced on ahead; Charlie had realized by the
second day of classes that her professor sometimes broke off in the middle of
one sentence, only to finish an entirely different one. It was like she skimmed
the text in her head, reading out a few words here and there. Most of the
students in her robotics class found it maddening, but Charlie liked it. It made
the lesson kind of like doing a puzzle.
The screen flashed again, displaying an assortment of mechanical parts and
a diagram of an eye. “This is what you must re-create.” Dr. Treadwell stepped
back from the image, turning to look at it with the class. “Basic artificial
intelligence is all about sensory control. You won’t be dealing with a mind
that can filter these things out for itself. You must design programs that
recognize basic shapes, while discarding unimportant information. You must
do for your robot what your own mind does for you: create a simplified and
organized assembly of information based on what’s relevant. Let’s start by
looking at some examples of basic shape recognition.”
“Charlie,” hissed the voice again, and she waved her pencil impatiently at
the figure peering over her shoulder—her friend Arty—trying to shoo him
away. The gesture cost her a moment, put her half a step behind the professor.
She hurried to catch up, anxious not to miss a single line.
The paper in front of her was covered in formulas, notes in the margins,
sketches, and diagrams. She wanted to get everything down all at once: not
just the math, but all the things it made her think of. If she could tie the new
facts to things she already knew, she’d retain it much more easily. She felt
hungry for it, alert, watching for new tidbits of information like a dog under
the dinner table.
A boy near the front raised his hand to ask a question, and Charlie felt a
brief flare of impatience. Now the whole class would have to stop while
Treadwell went back to explain a simple concept. Charlie let her mind
wander, sketching absently in the margins of her notebook.
John would be here in—she glanced restlessly at her watch—an hour. I told
him maybe someday we’ll see each other again. I guess it’s someday. He had
called out of the blue: “I’m just going to be passing through,” he said, and

Charlie hadn’t bothered to ask how he knew where she was. Of course he
would know. There was no reason not to meet him, and she found herself
alternately excited and filled with dread. Now, as she absently sketched
rectangular forms along the bottom of her note paper, her stomach jumped, a
little spasm of nerves. It felt like a lifetime since she last saw him. Sometimes,
it felt like she’d seen him yesterday, as if the last year hadn’t passed. But of
course it had, and everything had changed for Charlie once again.
That May, the night of her eighteenth birthday, the dreams had begun.
Charlie was long accustomed to nightmares, the worst moments of her past
forced up like bile, into twisted versions of memories already too terrible to
recall. She shoved these dreams into the back of her mind in the morning and
sealed them away, knowing they would only breach it when night fell again.
These dreams were different. When she woke, she was physically
exhausted: not just drained but sore, her muscles weak. Her hands were stiff
and aching, like they’d been clenched into fists for hours. These new dreams
didn’t come every night, but when they did, they interrupted her regular
nightmares and took them over. It didn’t matter if she was running and
screaming for her life, or wandering aimlessly through a dull mishmash of the
various places she’d been all week. Suddenly, from nowhere, she would sense
him: Sammy, her lost twin brother, was near.
She knew he was present the same way she knew that she was present, and
whatever the dream was, it dropped away—people, places, light, and sound.
Now she was searching for him in the darkness, calling his name. He never
answered. She would drop to her hands and knees, feeling her way through
the dark, letting his presence guide her until she came to a barrier. It was
smooth and cold, metal. She couldn’t see it, but she hit it hard with one fist
and it echoed. “Sammy?” she would call, hitting harder. She stood, reaching
up to see if she could scale the slick surface, but it stretched up far above her
head. She beat her fists against the barricade until they hurt. She screamed her
brother’s name until her throat was raw, until she fell to the floor and leaned
on the solid metal, pressing her cheek to its cool surface and hoping for a
whisper from the other side. He was there; she knew it as surely as if he were
a part of herself.
She knew in those dreams that he was present. Worse, when she was
awake, she knew he was not there.
In August, Charlie and Aunt Jen had their first fight. They’d always been
too distant to really argue. Charlie never felt the need to rebel, because Jen
provided no real authority. And Jen never took anything Charlie did
personally, never tried to stop her from doing anything, as long as she was
safe. The day Charlie moved in with her at the age of seven, Aunt Jen had
told her plainly that she was not a replacement for Charlie’s parents. By now,
Charlie was old enough to understand that Jen had meant it as a gesture of

respect, a way to reassure Charlie that her father wouldn’t be forgotten, that
she would always be his child. But at the time it had seemed like an
admonishment. Don’t expect parenting. Don’t expect love. And so Charlie
hadn’t. Jen had never failed to care for Charlie. Charlie had never wanted for
food or clothing, and Jen had taught her to cook, to take care of the house, to
manage her money, and to fix her own car. You have to be independent,
Charlie. You have to know how to take care of yourself. You have to be
stronger than—she’d cut herself off, but Charlie knew how the sentence
ended. Than your father.
Charlie shook her head, trying to jerk herself free of her own thoughts.
“What’s wrong?” Arty said next to her.
“Nothing,” she whispered. She ran her pencil again and again over the
same lines: up, over, down, over, the graphite wearing thicker and thicker.
Charlie had told Jen that she was going back to Hurricane, and Jen’s face
turned stony, her skin paling.
“Why would you want to do that?” she asked with a dangerous calm in her
voice. Charlie’s heart beat faster. Because that’s where I lost him. Because I
need him more than I need you. The thought of returning had been nagging at
her for months, growing stronger with each passing week. One morning she
awoke and the choice was made, final, sitting in her mind with a solid weight.
“Jessica’s going to college at St. George,” she told her aunt. “She’s starting
the summer semester so I can stay with her while I’m there. I want to see the
house again. There’s still so much I don’t understand; it just feels …
important,” she finished weakly, faltering as Jen’s eyes—dark blue, like
marble—fixed on her.
Jen didn’t answer for a long moment then she said simply, “No.”
Why not? Charlie might once have said. You let me go before. But after
what happened last year, when she and Jessica and the others went back to
Freddy’s and discovered the horrifying truth behind the murders at her
father’s old pizzeria, things had changed between them. Charlie had changed.
Now she met Jen’s gaze, determined. “I’m going,” she said, trying to keep her
own voice steady.
Then everything exploded.
Charlie didn’t know which of them started shouting first, but she screamed
until her throat was fiery and sore, hurling at her aunt every pain she’d ever
inflicted, every hurt she had failed to prevent. Jen shouted back that she only
ever meant to care for Charlie, that she had always done her best, flinging
reassuring words that somehow dripped with poison.
“I’m leaving!” Charlie screamed with finality. She started for the door, but
Jen grabbed her arm, yanking her violently back. Charlie stumbled, almost
falling before she caught herself on the kitchen table, and Jen let her hand
drop with a shocked expression. There was silence, and then Charlie left.

She packed a bag, feeling as if she had somehow diverged from reality, into
an impossible parallel world. Then she got in her car and drove away. She
didn’t tell anyone she was going. Her friends here were not close friends;
there was no one she owed an explanation.
When Charlie got to Hurricane, she’d intended to go straight to her father’s
house, to stay there for the next few days until Jessica arrived on campus. But
as she reached the city limits, something stopped her. I can’t, she thought. I
can’t ever go back. She turned the car around, drove straight to St. George,
and slept in her car for a week.
It was only after Charlie knocked, and Jessica opened the door with a
startled expression that Charlie realized that she’d never actually mentioned
her plans to Jessica, on whom they all depended. She told her everything, and
Jessica, hesitantly, offered to let her stay. Charlie had slept on the floor the
rest of the summer, and as the fall semester approached, Jessica didn’t ask her
to leave.
“It’s nice to have someone who knows me here,” she had said, and
uncharacteristically, Charlie hugged her.
Charlie had never cared about high school. She never paid much attention
in her classes, but As and Bs came easily for her. She had never really thought
about liking or disliking her subjects, though sometimes one teacher or
another would make her feel a spark of interest for a year.
Charlie hadn’t thought much beyond the end of the summer, but as she idly
flipped through Jessica’s course catalog and saw advanced courses in
robotics, something clicked into place. St. George was among the colleges
she’d been accepted into earlier that year, though she hadn’t really intended to
go to any of them. Now, however, she went to the administrative office and
pleaded her case until she was allowed to enroll, despite having missed the
deadline by months. There’s still so much I don’t understand. Charlie wanted
to learn, and the things she wanted to learn were very specific.
Of course there were things she had to learn before a robotics course would
make any sense at all. Math had always been straightforward, functional, sort
of like a game to Charlie; you did the thing you were supposed to do and got
the answer. But it had never been a very interesting game. It was fun to learn
something new, but then you had to keep doing it for weeks or months, bored
out of your skull. That was high school. But in her first calculus class,
something had happened. It was as if she’d been laying bricks for years,
forced to work slowly, seeing nothing but her mortar and her trowel. Then
suddenly someone pulled her back a few steps and said, “Here, look, you’ve
been building this castle. Go play inside!”
“And that’s all for today,” Professor Treadwell said at last. Charlie looked
down at her paper, realizing she’d never stopped moving her pencil. She had
worn dark lines right through the page, and drawn on the desk. She rubbed the

marks halfheartedly with her sleeve, then opened her binder to put away her
notes. Arty poked his head over her shoulder, and she closed it hastily, but he
had already gotten a good look.
“What is that, a secret code? Abstract art?”
“It’s just math,” Charlie said a little curtly, and put the notebook in her bag.
Arty was cute in a goofy way. He had a pleasant face, dark eyes, and curly
brown hair that seemed to have a life of its own. He was in three of her four
classes and had been following her around since the beginning of the semester
like a stray duckling. To her surprise, Charlie found that she didn’t mind it.
As Charlie left the auditorium, Arty took up his now-accustomed place at
her side.
“So, did you decide about the project?” he asked.
“Project?” Charlie vaguely remembered something about a project he
wanted to do together. He gave a little nod, waiting for her to catch up.
“Remember? We have to design an experiment for chem? I thought we
could work together. You know, with your brains and my looks …” He trailed
off, grinning.
“Yeah, that sounds—I have to go meet someone,” she interrupted herself.
“You never meet anyone,” he said, surprised, blushing bright red as soon as
the words were out of his mouth. “I didn’t mean it that way. Not that it’s any
of my business, but, who is it?” He gave a broad smile.
“John,” Charlie said without elaboration. Arty looked crestfallen for a
moment but recovered quickly.
“Of course, yeah. John. Great guy,” he said teasingly. He raised his
eyebrows, prompting for details, but she gave none. “I didn’t know you were
—that you had a—that’s cool.” Arty’s face took on a look of careful
neutrality. Charlie looked at him oddly. She hadn’t meant to imply that she
and John were a couple but she didn’t know how to correct him. She couldn’t
explain who John was to her without telling Arty far more than she wanted
him to know.
They walked in silence for a minute across the main quad, a small, grassy
square surrounded by brick and concrete buildings.
“So, is John from your hometown?” Arty asked at last.
“My hometown is thirty minutes away. This place is basically just an
extension of it,” Charlie said. “But yeah, he’s from Hurricane.” Arty
hesitated, then leaned in closer to her, glancing around as if someone might be
listening.
“I always meant to ask you,” he said.
Charlie looked at him wearily. Don’t ask about it.
“I’m sure people ask you about it all the time, but come on—you can’t
blame me for being curious. That stuff about the murders, it’s like an urban
legend around here. I mean, not just around here. Everywhere. Freddy

Fazbear’s Pizza—”
“Stop.” Charlie’s face was suddenly immobile. She felt as if moving it,
making any expression at all, would require an arcane skill she no longer
possessed. Arty’s face had changed, too. His easy smile drained away. He
looked almost frightened. Charlie bit the inside of her lip, willing her mouth
to move.
“I was just a kid when all that happened,” she said quietly. Arty nodded,
quick and skittish. Charlie made her face move into a smile. “I have to go
meet Jessica,” she lied. I have to get away from you. Arty nodded his head
again like a bobblehead doll. She turned and walked away toward the dorm,
not looking back.
Charlie blinked into the sunlight. Flashes of what happened last year at
Freddy’s were batting at her, snatches of memory plucking at her clothing
with cold, iron fingers. The hook above, poised to strike—no escape. A figure
looming behind the stage; red matted fur barely concealing the metal bones of
the murderous creature. Kneeling in pitch-dark on the cold tile floor of the
bathroom, and then—that giant, hard plastic eye glaring through the crack,
the hot miasma of lifeless breath on her face. And the other, older memory:
the thought that made her ache in ways for which she had no words, sorrow
filling her as if it had been wrought into her very bones. She and Sammy, her
other self, her twin brother, were playing their quiet games in the familiar
warmth of the costume closet. Then the figure appeared in the doorway,
looking down on them. Then Sammy was gone, and the world ended for the
first time.
Charlie was standing outside her own dorm room, almost without knowing
how she’d gotten there. Slowly, she pulled her keys from her pocket and let
herself into the room. The lights were off; Jessica was still in class. Charlie
shut the door behind her, checking the lock twice, and leaned back against it.
She took a deep breath. It’s over now. She straightened decisively and snapped
on the overhead light, filling the room with a harsh illumination. The clock
beside the bed told Charlie that she still had a little under an hour before John
arrived—time to work on her project.
Charlie and Jessica had divided the room with a piece of masking tape after
their first week living together. Jessica suggested it jokingly, said she’d seen it
in a movie, but Charlie had grinned and helped her measure the room. She
knew Jessica was desperate to keep Charlie’s mess off her side. The result
was a bedroom that looked like a “before and after” picture advertising either
a cleaning service or a nuclear weapon, depending on whose side you looked
at first.
On Charlie’s desk there was a pillowcase, draped over two indistinct
shapes. She went to her desk and removed it, folding it carefully and placing
it on her chair. She looked at her project.

“Hello,” she said softly.
Two mechanical faces were held upright on metal structures and attached to
a length of board. Their features were indistinct, like old statues worn away
by rain, or new clay not yet fully sculpted. They were made of a malleable
plastic, and where the backs of their heads ought to be there were instead
networks of casings, microchips, and wires.
Charlie bent down toward them, looking over every millimeter of her
design, making sure everything was as she’d left it. She flipped a small black
switch and little lights blinked; tiny cooling fans began to whir.
They didn’t move right away, but there was a change. The vague features
took on a sense of purpose. Their blind eyes didn’t turn to Charlie: they
looked only at each other.
“You,” said the first. Its lips moved to shape the syllable, but never parted.
They weren’t made to open.
“I,” the second replied, making the same soft, constrained movement.
“You are,” said the first.
“Am I?” said the second.
Charlie watched, her hand pressed over her mouth. She held her breath,
afraid of disturbing them. She waited, but they had apparently finished, and
were now simply looking at each other. They can’t see, Charlie reminded
herself. She turned them off and pulled the board around so that she could
peer into their backs. She reached inside and adjusted a wire.
A key slid into the lock of the door, and Charlie startled at the sound. She
snatched the pillowcase and threw it over the faces as Jessica entered the
room. Jessica paused in the doorway with a grin.
“What was that?” she asked.
“What?” Charlie said innocently.
“Come on, I know you were working on that thing you never let me see.”
She dropped her backpack on the floor, then flopped dramatically back on the
bed. “Anyways, I’m exhausted!” she announced. Charlie laughed, and Jessica
sat up. “Come talk to me,” she said. “What’s up with you and John?”
Charlie sat down on her own bed, across from Jessica. Despite their
different lifestyles, she liked living with the other girl. Jessica was warm and
bright, and while her ease as she went about the world still intimidated
Charlie a little, now she felt like a part of it. Maybe being Jessica’s friend
meant absorbing some of her confidence.
“I haven’t seen him yet. I have to leave in …” She peered over Jessica’s
shoulder at the clock. “Fifteen minutes.”
“Are you excited?” Jessica asked.
Charlie shrugged. “I think so,” she said.
Jessica laughed. “You’re not sure?”
“I’m excited,” Charlie admitted. “It’s just been a long time.”

“Not that long,” Jessica pointed out. Then she looked thoughtful. “I guess it
sort of has been, though. Everything is so different since the last time we saw
him.”
Charlie cleared her throat. “So you really want to see my project?” she
asked, surprising herself.
“Yes!” Jessica declared, springing up from the bed. She followed Charlie to
her desk. Charlie switched on the power then flung off the pillowcase like a
magician. Jessica gasped and took an involuntary step back. “What is it?” she
asked, her voice cautious. But before Charlie could answer, the first face
spoke.
“Me,” it said.
“You,” the other replied, and they both fell silent again. Charlie looked at
Jessica. Her friend had a pinched expression, like she was holding something
tightly inside.
“I,” the second face said.
Charlie hurried to switch them off. “Why do you have that look on your
face?” she said.
Jessica took a deep breath and smiled at her. “I just haven’t had lunch yet,”
she said, but something lingered in her eyes.
Jessica watched as Charlie replaced the pillowcase lovingly over the faces,
as if she were tucking a child into bed. She looked uncomfortably around the
room. Charlie’s half was a disaster: clothes and books were strewn
everywhere, but there were also the wires and computer parts, tools, screws,
and pieces of plastic and metal Jessica didn’t recognize, all jumbled up
together. It wasn’t just a mess; it was a chaotic tangle where you could lose
anything. Or hide anything, she realized, with a pang of guilt at the thought.
Jessica turned her attention back to Charlie.
“What are you programming them to do?” she asked, and Charlie smiled
proudly.
“I’m not exactly programming them to do anything. I’m helping them learn
on their own.”
“Right, of course. Obviously,” Jessica said slowly. As she did, something
caught her eye: a pair of shiny plastic eyes and long floppy ears were peering
out from a pile of dirty laundry.
“Hey, I never noticed you brought Theodore, your little robo-rabbit!” she
exclaimed, pleased to have remembered the name of Charlie’s childhood toy.
Before Charlie could respond, she picked the stuffed animal up by his ears—
and came away with only his head.
Jessica let out a shriek and dropped it, clapping a hand over her mouth.
“I’m sorry!” Charlie said, hastily grabbing the rabbit’s head off the floor. “I
took him apart to study; I’m using some of his parts in my project.” She
gestured at the thing on her desk.

“Oh,” Jessica said, trying to hide her dismay. She glanced around the room
and suddenly realized that the rabbit’s parts were everywhere. His cotton-ball
tail was on Charlie’s pillow, and a leg hung off the lamp above her desk. His
torso lay in the corner, almost out of sight, ripped open savagely. Jessica
looked at her friend’s round, cheerful face, and frizzy shoulder-length brown
hair. Jessica closed her eyes for a long moment.
Oh, Charlie, what’s wrong with you?
“Jessica?” Charlie said. The girl’s eyes were closed, her expression pained.
“Jessica?” This time she opened her eyes and gave Charlie a sudden, bright
smile, turning on cheer like a faucet. It was disconcerting, but Charlie had
gotten used to it.
Jessica blinked hard, like she was resetting her brain. “So, are you nervous
about seeing John?” she asked. Charlie thought for a moment.
“No. I mean, why should I be? It’s just John, right?” Charlie tried to laugh,
but gave up. “Jessica, I don’t know what to talk about!” she burst out
suddenly.
“What do you mean?”
“I don’t know what to talk about with him!” Charlie said. “If we don’t have
something to talk about, then we’ll start talking about … what happened last
year. And I just can’t.”
“Right.” Jessica looked thoughtful. “Maybe he won’t bring it up,” she
offered.
Charlie sighed, glancing back at her covered experiment with longing. “Of
course he will. It’s all we have in common.” She sat down heavily on her bed
and slumped over.
“Charlie, you don’t have to talk about anything you don’t want to talk
about,” Jessica said gently. “You can always just cancel on him. But I don’t
think John’s going to put you on the spot. He cares about you. I doubt what
happened in Hurricane is what’s on his mind.”
“What does that mean?”
“I just mean …” Jessica gingerly pushed aside a pile of laundry and sat
next to Charlie, placing a hand on her knee. “I just mean that maybe it’s time
that you both move past that. And I think John is trying to.”
Charlie looked away and stared fixedly at Theodore’s head, facedown on
the floor. You mean, get over it? How do I even begin?
Jessica’s voice softened. “This can’t be your whole life anymore.”
“I know.” Charlie sighed. She decided to change the subject. “How was
your class, anyway?” Charlie wiped her eyes, hoping Jessica would take the
hint.
“Awesome.” Jessica stood and stretched, bending over to touch her toes
and incidentally giving Charlie a chance to compose herself. When Jessica
stood again, she was smiling brilliantly, back in character. “Did you know that

corpses can be preserved in peat bogs like mummies?”
Charlie wrinkled her nose. “I do now. So is that what you’re gonna do
when you graduate? Crawl around in peat bogs looking for bodies?”
Jessica shrugged. “Maybe.”
“I’ll get you a hazmat suit for your graduation gift,” Charlie joked. She
looked at her watch. “Time to go! Wish me luck.” She brushed her hair back
with her hands, peering into the mirror that hung on the back of the door. “I
feel like a mess.”
“You look great.” Jessica gave her an encouraging nod.
“I’ve been doing sit-ups,” Charlie said awkwardly.
“Huh?”
“Forget it.” Charlie grabbed her backpack and headed for the door.
“Go knock his socks off!” Jessica called as Charlie left.
“I don’t know what that means!” Charlie replied, letting the door swing
closed before she’d finished speaking.
* * *
Charlie spotted him as she approached the main entrance to the campus. John
was leaning on the wall, reading a book. His brown hair was as messy as ever,
and he was wearing a blue T-shirt and jeans, dressed more casually than the
last time she’d seen him.
“John!” she called, her reluctance falling away as soon as she saw him. He
put away his book, grinning widely, and hurried to her.
“Hey, Charlie,” he said. They stood there awkwardly, then Charlie extended
her arms to hug him. He held her tightly for a moment then abruptly released
her.
“You got taller,” she said accusingly, and he laughed.
“I did,” he admitted. He gave her a searching look. “You look exactly the
same, though,” he said with a puzzled smile.
“I cut my hair!” Charlie said in mock-outrage. She ran her fingers through
it, demonstrating.
“Oh yeah!” he said. “I like it. I just mean, you’re the same girl I
remember.”
“I’ve been doing sit-ups,” Charlie said with a rising panic.
“Huh?” John gave her a confused look.
“Never mind. Are you hungry?” Charlie asked. “I have about an hour
before my next class. We could get a burger. There’s a dining hall not far from
here.”
“Yeah, that would be great,” John said. Charlie pointed across the quad.
“That way, come on.”
* * *

“So what are you doing here?” Charlie asked as they sat down with their
trays. “Sorry,” she added. “Did that sound rude?”
“Not rude at all, although I would have also accepted, ‘John, to what
circumstance do I owe the pleasure of this delightful reunion?’”
“Yeah, that sounds like me,” Charlie said drily. “But seriously, what are
you doing here?”
“Got a job.”
“In St. George?” she asked. “Why?”
“In Hurricane, actually,” he said, his voice self-consciously casual.
“Aren’t you in school somewhere?” Charlie asked.
John blushed, looking down at his plate for a moment. “I was going to, but
… it’s a lot of money to read books when a library card is free, you know?
My cousin got me a job in construction, and I’m working on my writing when
I can. I figured even if I’m gonna be an artist, I don’t have to be a starving
one.” He took an illustrative bite of his hamburger, and Charlie grinned.
“So why here?” she insisted, and he held up a finger as he finished
chewing.
“The storm,” he said. Charlie nodded. The storm had hit Hurricane before
Charlie came to St. George, and people talked about it in capital letters: The
Storm. It wasn’t the worst the area had ever seen, but it was close. A tornado
had risen up from nowhere and ripped through whole towns, razing one house
to the ground with sinister precision, while leaving the one next to it
untouched. There hadn’t been much damage in St. George, but Hurricane had
seen real destruction.
“How bad is it?” Charlie asked, keeping her tone light.
“You haven’t been?” John said incredulously, and it was Charlie’s turn to
look awkwardly away. She shook her head. “It’s bad in places,” he said.
“Mostly on the outskirts of town. Charlie … I assumed you’d been.” He bit
his lip.
“What?” Something about his expression was worrying her.
“Your dad’s house, it was one of the ones that got hit,” he said.
“Oh.” Something leaden was growing in Charlie’s chest. “I didn’t know.”
“You really didn’t even go back to check?”
“I didn’t think of it,” Charlie said. That’s not true. She’d thought a thousand
times of going back to her father’s house. But it had never occurred to her that
the house might have been hit in the storm. In her mind, it was impregnable,
unchanging. It would always be there, just as her father had left it. She closed
her eyes and pictured it. The front steps sagged in disrepair, but the house
itself stood like a fortress, protecting what was inside. “Is it—gone?” Charlie
asked, the words faint.
“No,” John said quickly. “No, it’s still there, just damaged. I don’t know
how much; I just drove by. I didn’t think I should go there without you.”

Charlie nodded, only half listening. She felt far away. She could see John,
hear him, but there was a layer of something between them, between her and
everything else, everything but the house itself.
“I would have thought—didn’t your aunt tell you what happened?” John
asked.
“I have to get to class,” Charlie said. “It’s that way.” She gestured vaguely.
“Charlie, have you been okay?” She didn’t look at him, and he placed his
hand over hers. She still couldn’t look up. She didn’t want him to see her face.
“Okay,” she repeated, then slipped her hand out from under his and
shrugged her shoulders up and down, like she was trying to get something off
her back. “I had my birthday,” she offered, and she finally leveled her gaze to
meet his.
“I’m sorry I missed it,” John said.
“No, no, that’s not …” She tipped her head from side to side, as if she
could level out her thoughts, too. “Do you remember how I had a twin?”
“What?” John sounded puzzled. “Of course I do. I’m sorry, Charlie, is that
what you meant about your birthday?” She nodded, making tiny motions.
John held out his hand again, and she took it. She could feel his pulse through
his thumb.
“Ever since we left Hurricane … You know how twins are supposed to be
connected, have some kind of special bond?”
“Sure,” he said.
“Ever since we left—ever since I found out he was real—I’ve felt like he
was there with me. I know he’s not. He’s dead, but for that whole year, I
didn’t feel alone anymore.”
“Charlie.” John’s hand tightened on hers. “You know you’re not alone.”
“No, I mean really not alone. Like I have another self: someone who’s a
part of me and is always with me. I’ve had these feelings before, but they
came and went, and I didn’t pay much attention to them. I didn’t know they
meant something. Then when I learned the truth, and those memories started
coming back to me—John, I felt whole in a way I don’t even know how to
describe.” Her eyes began to fill with tears and she pulled her hand back to
brush them away.
“Hey,” he said softly. “It’s okay. That’s great, Charlie. I’m glad you have
that.”
“No. No, that’s the thing. I don’t!” She met his eyes, desperate for him to
understand what she was so awkwardly trying to say. “He’s disappeared. That
sense of completeness is gone.”
“What?”
“It happened on my birthday. I woke up and I just felt—” She sighed,
searching. There wasn’t a word for it.
“Alone?” John said.

“Incomplete.” She took a deep breath, pulling herself back together. “But
the thing is, it’s not just loss. It’s—it’s like he’s trapped somewhere. I have
these dreams where I can feel him on the other side of something, like he’s so
close to me, but he’s stuck somewhere. Like he’s in a box, or I’m in a box. I
can’t tell.”
John stared at her, momentarily speechless. Before he could figure out what
to say, Charlie stood abruptly. “I need to leave.”
“Are you sure? You haven’t even eaten,” he said.
“I’m sorry—” She broke off. “John, it’s so good to see you.” She hesitated
then turned to walk away, possibly for good. She knew she’d disappointed
him.
“Charlie, would you like to go out with me tonight?” John’s voice sounded
stiff, but his eyes were warm.
“Sure, that would be great,” she said, giving a half smile. “Don’t you have
to get back to work tomorrow, though?”
“It’s only half an hour away,” John said. He cleared his throat. “But I
meant, do you want to go out with me?”
“I just said yeah,” Charlie repeated, slightly irritated.
John sighed. “I mean on a date, Charlie.”
“Oh.” Charlie stared at him for a moment. “Right.” You don’t have to do
anything you don’t want to do. Jessica’s voice echoed in her head. And yet …
she realized she was smiling.
“Um, yes. Yes, a date. Okay, yeah. There’s a movie theater in town?” she
hazarded, vaguely recalling that movies were something people did on dates.
John nodded vigorously, apparently as lost at sea as she was, now that the
question had been asked. “Can we have dinner first? There’s that Thai place
down the street. I can meet you there around eight?”
“Yeah, sounds good. ’Bye!” Charlie grabbed her backpack and hurried out
the dining room door, realizing as she stepped into the sunshine that she’d left
him to clean up their table alone. Sorry.
As Charlie headed across the quad to her next class, her step grew more
purposeful. This was a basic computer science class. Writing code wasn’t as
exciting as what Dr. Treadwell taught, but Charlie still liked it. It was
absorbing, detailed work. A single error could ruin everything. Everything?
She thought of her impending date. The idea that a single error could ruin
everything suddenly carried an awful weight.
Charlie hurried up the steps to the building and stopped short as a man
blocked her path.
It was Clay Burke.
“Hey, Charlie.” He smiled, but his eyes were grave. Charlie hadn’t seen
Hurricane’s chief of police—her friend Carlton’s father—since the night
they’d escaped Freddy’s together. Looking now at his weathered face, she felt

a rush of fear.
“Mr. Burke, er, Clay. What are you doing here?”
“Charlie, do you have a second?” he asked. Her heart sped up.
“Is Carlton okay?” she asked urgently.
“Yes, he’s fine,” Burke assured her. “Walk with me. Don’t worry about
being late. I’ll give you a note for class. At least, I think an officer of the law
has authority do that.” He winked, but Charlie didn’t smile. Something was
wrong.
Charlie followed him back down the stairs. When they were a dozen feet
from the building, Burke stopped and met her gaze, as if he were looking for
something.
“Charlie, we’ve found a body,” he said. “I want you to take a look at it.”
“You want me to look at it?”
“I need you to see it.”
Me. She said the only thing she could.
“Why? Does it have to do with Freddy’s?”
“I don’t want to tell you anything until you’ve seen it,” Burke said. He
started walking again, and Charlie hurried to keep up with his long stride. She
followed him to the parking lot just outside the main gate, and got into his car
without a word. Charlie settled into her seat, a strange dread stirring within
her. Clay Burke glanced at her and she gave a sharp, quick nod. He pulled the
car out onto the road, and they headed back to Hurricane.

So, how are you enjoying your classes?” Clay Burke asked in a jovial tone.
Charlie gave him a sardonic look. “Well, this is the first murder of the
semester. So things have been going fine.”
Burke didn’t answer, apparently aware that further attempts to lighten the
mood would fail. Charlie looked out the window. She thought often of going
back to her father’s house, but each time the memory of the place rose up she
slammed it back down with almost physical force, cramming it into the tiny
corners of her mind to gather dust. Now something was stirring in the dusty
corners, and she feared she might not be able to keep it away much longer.
“Chief Burke—Clay,” Charlie said. “How’s Carlton been?”
He smiled. “Carlton’s doing great. I tried to convince him to stay close for
college, but he and Betty were adamant. Now he’s out east, studying acting.”
“Acting?” Charlie laughed, surprising herself.
“Well, he was always a prankster,” Clay said. “I figured acting was the next
logical step.”
Charlie smiled. “Did he ever …” She looked out the window again. “Did
you and he ever talk about what happened?” she asked with her face turned
away. She could see Clay’s reflection faintly in the window, distorted by the
glass.
“Carlton talks to his mother more than he talks to me,” he said plainly.
Charlie waited for him to go on, but he remained silent. Though she and
Jessica lived together, from the beginning they had an unspoken pact never to
talk about Freddy’s, except in the barest terms. She didn’t know if Jessica was
sometimes consumed by the memories, as she was. Maybe Jessica had
nightmares, too.

But Charlie and Clay had no such pact. She took in shallow, quick breaths,
waiting to hear how far he would go.
“I think Carlton had dreams about it,” Clay said finally. “Sometimes in the
morning he would come downstairs looking like he hadn’t slept in a week,
but he never told me what was going on.”
“What about you? Do you think about it?” She was overstepping but Clay
didn’t seem ruffled.
“I try not to,” he said gravely. “You know, Charlie, when terrible things
happen you can do one of two things: you can leave them behind or you can
let them consume you.”
Charlie set her jaw. “I’m not my father,” she said.
Clay looked immediately contrite. “I know, I didn’t mean that,” he said. “I
just meant you have to look forward.” He flashed a nervous grin. “Of course,
my wife would say there’s a third thing: you can process the terrible things
and come to terms with them. She’s probably right.”
“Probably,” Charlie said distractedly.
“And what about you? How are you doing, Charlie?” Clay asked. It was the
question she had practically solicited, but she didn’t know how to answer it.
“I have dreams about it, I guess,” she muttered.
“You guess?” he asked in a careful tone. “What kind of dreams?”
Charlie looked out the window again. There was a weight pressing on her
chest. What kind of dreams?
Nightmares, but not of Freddy’s. A shadow in the doorway of the costume
closet where we play. Sammy doesn’t see; he’s playing with his truck. But I
look up. The shadow has eyes. Then everything is moving—hangers rattle and
costumes sway. A toy truck drops hard on the floor.
I’m left alone. The air is growing thin, I’m running out. It’s getting hard to
breathe and I’ll die like this, alone, in the dark. I pound against the closet
wall, calling for help. I know he’s there. Sammy is on the other side, but he
doesn’t answer my cries as I begin to gasp, choking for air. It is too dark to
see, but even so I know my vision is going black, and in my chest my heart is
slowing, each pump swelling me with pain as I struggle to call his name one
more time—
“Charlie?” Clay had pulled over and stopped the car without her noticing.
Now he was looking at her with his piercing detective’s gaze. She looked at
him for a moment before she could remember how to answer, and she made
herself smile.
“I’ve mostly been focused on school,” she said.
Clay smiled at her but it didn’t touch his eyes. He looked worried. He’s
wishing he hadn’t brought me, she thought.
He opened his door but didn’t get out of the car. The sun had begun to set
as they drove, and now it was verging on dark. The turn signal was still on,

flashing yellow onto the dirt road. Charlie watched it for a moment,
hypnotized. She felt as if she might never move again, just sit here watching
the endless, measured blinking of the light. Clay switched the signal off, and
Charlie blinked, as if a spell had been broken. She straightened her spine and
unbuckled her seat belt.
“Charlie,” Clay said, not looking directly at her. “I’m sorry to ask this of
you, but you’re the only person who can tell me if this is what I think it is.”
“Okay,” she replied, suddenly alert. Clay sighed and got out of the car.
Charlie followed close behind him. There was a barbed wire fence all along
the road, and there were cows in the field beyond it. They stood around,
chewing and staring in the vacant way of cows. Clay lifted the top wire for
Charlie and she climbed gingerly through. When’s the last time I got a tetanus
shot? she wondered as a barb caught briefly on her T-shirt.
She didn’t have to ask where the body was. There was a floodlight and a
makeshift fence of caution tape strung between posts that jutted from the soil
in a scattered formation. Charlie stood where she was as Burke climbed
through the fence after her, and they both surveyed the area.
The field was flat, and the grass was short and patchy, worn down daily by
dozens of hooves. A single tree stood some distance from where the crime
scene was marked. Charlie thought it was an oak. Its branches were long and
ancient, heavy with leaves. There was something wrong with the air; along
with the smell of cow dung and mud wafted the sharp, metallic scent of
blood.
For some reason, Charlie looked at the cows again. They weren’t as calm
as she’d assumed. They shifted back and forth on their feet, clustering in
groups. None of them came anywhere near the floodlight. As if sensing her
scrutiny, one of them lowed a mournful cry. Charlie heard Clay’s sharp intake
of breath.
“Maybe we should ask them what happened,” Charlie said. In the stillness,
her voice carried. Clay started toward the floodlight. Charlie followed closely,
not wanting to fall too far behind. It wasn’t just the cows; a weight of
something wrong hung over the place. There was no sound, only the shocked
quiet that follows a terrible violence.
Clay stopped beside the marked-out spot and ushered Charlie forward, still
saying nothing. Charlie looked.
It was a man, stretched in a ghastly posture on his back, his limbs contorted
impossibly. In the glaring, unnatural light, the scene looked staged; he might
have been an enormous doll. His whole body was drenched red with blood.
His clothes were torn, almost shredded, and through the holes Charlie thought
she could see ripped-up skin, some bone, and other things she couldn’t
identify.
“What do you make of it?” Clay said softly, as if he were afraid of

disturbing her.
“I need to get closer,” she said. Clay climbed over the yellow tape, and
Charlie followed. She knelt in the mud beside the man’s head, the knees of
her jeans soaking with mud. He was middle-aged, white, his hair short and
gray. His eyes, thankfully, were closed. The rest of his face slack in a way that
could almost have looked like sleep, but did not. She leaned forward to peer
at the man’s neck and blanched, but didn’t look away.
“Charlie, are you all right?” Clay asked, and she held up a hand.
“I’m fine.” She knew those wounds; she’d seen the scars they left. On each
side of the dead man’s neck was a deep, curved gash. This was what had
killed him. It would have been instantaneous. Or maybe not. Suddenly she
pictured Dave, the guard at Freddy’s, the murderer. She had watched him die.
She’d triggered the spring locks and seen his startled eyes as the locks drove
into his neck. She’d watched his body jolt and seize as the costume he wore
shot jagged metal through his vital organs. Charlie stared at this stranger’s
wounds. She reached down and ran her finger along the edge of the cut on the
man’s neck. What were you doing?
“Charlie!” Clay said in alarm, and Charlie drew back her hand.
“Sorry,” she said self-consciously, wiping her bloody fingers on her jeans.
“Clay, it was one of them. His neck, he died like …” She stopped talking.
Clay had been there; his son had almost died the same way. But if this was
happening again, he had to know what he was dealing with.
“You remember how Dave died, right?” she asked.
Clay nodded. “Hard thing to forget.” He shook his head, patiently waiting
for her to get to the point.
“These suits, like the rabbit suit that Dave was wearing, they can be worn
like costumes. Or they can move around on their own, as fully functional
robots.”
“Sure, you just put the suit on a robot,” Clay said.
“Not exactly … The robots are always inside the suits; they’re made of
interlocking parts that are held back against the inner lining of the costumes
by spring locks. When you want an animatronic, you just trip the locks, and
the robotic parts unfold inside, filling the suit.”
“But if there’s someone inside the suit when the locks are tripped … ,”
Clay said, catching on.
“Right. Thousands of sharp metal parts shoot through your whole body.
Like, well—that,” she finished, gesturing at the man on the ground.
“How hard is it to accidentally trigger the spring locks?” Clay asked.
“It depends on the costume. If it’s well cared for, pretty hard. If it’s old, or
poorly designed—it could happen. And if it’s not an accident …”
“Is that what happened here?”
Charlie hesitated. Dave’s image came to her again, this time alive, when he

bared his torso to show them the scars he bore. Dave had once survived being
crushed like this, though the second time had killed him. Somehow he had
survived the lethal unfolding of a costume, a thing that should have been
impossible. But it had left its marks. She cleared her throat and started again.
“I need to see his chest,” she said. “Can you get his shirt off?”
Clay nodded and took a pair of plastic gloves from his pocket. He tossed
them to Charlie but they fell to the ground unnoticed. “If I’d known you were
going to stick your fingers in the corpse, I’d have given these to you earlier,”
he said drily. He put on a pair of his own and produced a knife from
somewhere on his belt. The man was wearing a T-shirt. Clay dropped to his
knees, took hold of the bottom, and began to saw through the cloth. The
sound of wet, tearing fabric cut through the silent field like a cry of pain. At
last he was done, and he pulled back the shirt. Dried blood clung to the fabric,
and as Clay pulled it back the body pulled with it, giving a brief, false sense
of life. Charlie bent over, picturing Dave’s scars. She compared the pattern to
the wounds she saw here. This is what happened to Dave. Each piercing of
the man’s flesh seemed like a killing blow; any one of them might have
punctured something vital, or simply been deep enough to drain him of blood
in minutes. What was left of him was grotesque.
“It was one of them,” Charlie said, looking up at Clay for the first time
since they reached the body. “He must have been wearing one of the
costumes. It’s the only way he could end up like this. But …” Charlie paused
and scanned the field again. “Where’s the suit?”
“What would someone be doing wearing one of those things out here?”
Clay said.
“Maybe he wasn’t wearing it willingly,” Charlie answered.
Clay leaned forward and reached for the man’s open shirt, pulling it closed
as best he could. Together they got up and headed back to the car.
As Clay drove her back to campus, Charlie stared out the window into the
darkness.
“Clay, what happened to Freddy’s?” she asked. “I hear it was torn down.”
She scratched her fingernail on the car seat nervously. “Is that true?”
“Yes. Well, they started to,” Clay said slowly. “We went through the whole
place, clearing everything out. It was a funny thing; we couldn’t find the body
of that guard, Dave.” He paused and looked directly at Charlie, as though
expecting her to answer for something.
Charlie felt the warmth drain from her face. He’s dead. I saw him die. She
closed her eyes for a moment and forced herself to focus.
“That place was like a maze, though.” Clay turned his eyes casually back to
the road. “His body probably got stuffed into some crevice no one will find
for years.”
“Yeah, probably buried in the rubble.” She looked down, trying to put the

thought out of her head for the moment. “What about the costumes, the
robots?” Clay hesitated. You must have known I would ask, Charlie thought
with some annoyance.
“Everything we took out of Freddy’s was thrown away or burned.
Technically I should have treated it like what it was: a break in the missing
kids case, over a decade old. Everything would have been bagged up and
gone over. But no one would have believed what happened there, what we
saw. So I took some liberties.” He glanced at Charlie, the suspicious look
gone from his face, and she nodded for him to continue. Clay took a deep
breath. “I treated it only as the murder of my officer; you remember Officer
Dunn. We recovered his body, closed the case, and I ordered the building to
be demolished.”
“What about …” Charlie paused, trying not to let her frustration show.
“What about Freddy, and Bonnie, and Chica, and Foxy?” What about the
children, the children who were killed and hidden inside each one of them?
“They were all there,” Clay said gravely. “They were lifeless, Charlie. I
don’t know what else to tell you.” Charlie didn’t respond.
“As far as the demolition crew was concerned, all they’d found were old
costumes, broken robots, and two dozen folding tables. And I didn’t correct
them,” he said with hesitation in his voice. “You know how these things go.
Whether building up or tearing down, it takes time. From what I hear, the
storm hit and suddenly everyone was needed elsewhere; the demolition was
put on hold.”
“So it’s all still standing there?” Charlie asked, and Clay gave her a
warning look.
“Some parts are standing, but for all intents and purposes, it’s gone. And
don’t even think about going back there. There’s no reason to and you’ll get
yourself killed. Like I said, everything that mattered is gone anyway.”
“I don’t want to go back there,” Charlie said softly.
When they reached the campus, Clay let her out where he’d found her.
She’d only taken a few steps from the car, however, when he called to her
from the car window. “I feel like I need to tell you one more thing,” he said.
“We found blood at the scene, in the main dining room where Dave …” He
looked around cautiously. There was something unseemly, talking about
gruesome things on the sheltered grounds of the campus. “It wasn’t real
blood, Charlie.”
“What are you talking about?” Charlie took a step back toward the car.
“It was, like, costume blood, or movie blood. It was pretty convincing,
though. We didn’t realize it was fake until the crime lab looked at it under a
microscope.”
“Why are you telling me this?” Charlie asked, although she knew the
answer. The terrible possibility was pounding in her mind like a headache.

“He survived once,” Clay said plainly.
“Well, he didn’t survive the second time.” Charlie turned to walk away.
“I’m sorry you have to be involved in this,” Clay called.
Charlie didn’t answer. She looked down at the pavement and clenched her
teeth. Clay raised the window without another word and drove away.

Charlie checked her watch: she was on time to meet John, even early. She
passed under a streetlight and looked down at herself, checking her clothes.
Oh no. The knees of her jeans were wet with mud, and there was a dark stain
where she had wiped her fingers clean of the dead man’s blood. I can’t show
up covered in blood. He’s seen me like this too many times already. She
sighed and turned around.
Thankfully, Jessica was gone when she got back to the room. Charlie didn’t
want to talk about what had just happened. Clay hadn’t explicitly told her to
keep it a secret, but she was fairly sure she shouldn’t broadcast her private
visit to a crime scene. Charlie cast a glance at the faces under their pillowcase
cover, but didn’t go to them. She wanted to show her project to John, but, like
Jessica, he might not understand.
She opened a dresser drawer and stared down at the contents without
registering them. In her mind, she saw the body again, its limbs splayed out as
if it had been thrown down where it lay. She covered her face with her hands,
taking deep breaths. She had seen the scars, but she’d never seen the wounds
of the spring locks fresh. Now Dave’s eyes came to her, the look of shock just
before he fell. Charlie could feel the locks in her hands, feel them resist, then
give way and snap. That’s what happened. That’s what I did. She swallowed,
and slid her hands down to her throat.
Charlie shook her head like a dog shaking off a wet coat. She looked at the
open drawer again, concentrating. I need to change. What is all this? The
drawer was filled with brightly colored shirts, all unfamiliar. Charlie startled,
a dim panic seizing her. What is all this? She picked up a T-shirt and dropped
it again, then forced herself to take a deep breath. Jessica. They’re Jessica’s.

She’d opened the wrong drawer.
Get it together, Charlie, she told herself sternly, and somehow it sounded
like Aunt Jen’s voice in her head. Despite everything that lay between her and
her aunt, just imagining her cold, authoritative voice made Charlie a little
calmer. She nodded to herself, then grabbed what she needed: a clean T-shirt
and jeans. She dressed hurriedly, then left to meet John, her stomach
fluttering, half-excited, half-sick. A date, she thought. What if it doesn’t go
well? Worse, what if it does?
As she neared the Thai restaurant, she saw that John was already there. He
was waiting outside, but he didn’t look impatient. He didn’t spot her right
away, and Charlie slowed her pace for a moment, watching him. He seemed
at ease, gazing into the middle distance with a vague, pleasant expression. He
had an air of confidence he hadn’t possessed a year ago. It wasn’t that he’d
been unsure of himself then, but now he looked … adult. Maybe it was
because he’d gone straight to work after high school. Maybe it was what
happened last year at Freddy’s, Charlie thought with an unexpected sense of
envy. Although she’d moved out on her own, to a new home and a new
college, she felt as if the experience had left her more a child, not less. Not a
cared-for or protected child, but one who was vulnerable and unmoored. A
child who had looked under the bed and seen the monsters.
John noticed her and waved. Charlie waved back and smiled, the
expression unforced. Date or not, it was good to see him.
“How was your last class?” he said by way of greeting, and Charlie
shrugged.
“I don’t know. It was class. How was the rest of work?”
He grinned. “It was work. Are you hungry?”
“Yes,” Charlie said decisively. They headed inside and were motioned to a
table.
“Have you been here before?” John asked, and Charlie shook her head.
“I don’t get out much,” she said. “I don’t even come out to town that often.
The college is sort of its own little world, you know?”
“I can imagine,” John said cheerfully. Now that the secret was out that he
wasn’t in school, he’d apparently shed his earlier discomfort. “Isn’t it a little
bit … ?” he searched for words. “Doesn’t it feel a little isolated?”
“Not really,” Charlie said. “If it’s a prison, it’s not one of the worst.”
“I didn’t mean to compare it to a prison!” John said. “So, come on, what
are you studying?”
Charlie hesitated. There was no reason not to tell John, but it seemed too
soon, too risky to announce that she was eagerly following in her father’s
footsteps. She didn’t want to tell him she was studying robotics until she had
some idea of how he would respond. Just like with her project.
“Most colleges make you do a set of classes your first year: English, math,

everything like that,” she said, hoping it would sound like a response.
Suddenly Charlie didn’t want to talk about school; she wasn’t sure she could
keep up a conversation about anything, really. She looked at John, and for a
moment imagined the spring-lock wounds in his neck. Her eyes widened and
she bit the inside of her cheek, trying to ground herself.
“Tell me about your job,” she said, and saw her own hesitation mirrored on
his face.
“I mean, I like the work,” he said. “More than I thought I would, actually.
There’s something about doing physical labor that kind of frees my mind. It’s
like meditation. It’s hard, though, really hard. Construction workers always
make it look so easy, but it turns out it takes a while to build up that kind of
muscle.” He stretched his arms comically over his head, and Charlie laughed,
but couldn’t help noticing that he was clearly well on his way to that kind of
muscle. John leaned to his left and gave his armpit a quick sniff, then made a
look of mock-embarrassment. Charlie looked down at her menu and giggled.
“Do you already know what you want?” she said. Then the waitress
appeared out of nowhere, as if she’d been listening nearby.
John ordered, and Charlie froze. She’d said it just to say something, but she
didn’t know what to get. Suddenly she noticed all the prices. Everything on
the menu was impossibly expensive. She hadn’t even thought about money
when she accepted John’s invitation, but now her mind jumped to her wallet,
and her nearly empty bank account.
Misreading her expression, John leaped in. “If you’ve never had Thai food,
Pad Thai is good,” he suggested. “I should have asked,” he said awkwardly.
“If I’m buying a lady dinner, I should make sure she likes the food!” He
looked embarrassed, but Charlie was flooded with relief. Buying a lady
dinner.
“No, I’m sure I’ll like it,” she said. “Pad Thai, thanks,” she told the
waitress, then gave John a mock-glare. “Who are you calling a lady?” she said
playfully, and he laughed.
“What’s wrong with that?”
“It just sounds weird, you calling me a lady,” Charlie said. “So anyway,
what do you all day besides meditate?”
“Well, the days are long, and like I said, I’m still writing, so there’s that.
It’s strange being in Hurricane again, though. I didn’t mean to put down
roots.”
“Put down roots?”
“Like, join a bowling team or something. Ties to the community, things
like that.”
Charlie nodded. She of all people understood the need to remain apart.
“Why did you take the job here, then?” she asked. “I know they needed
people because of the storm, but you didn’t have to come, right? People are

still building things in other places.”
“That’s true,” he admitted. “To be honest, it was more about getting away
from where I was.”
“Sounds familiar,” Charlie muttered, too softly for him to hear.
The waitress returned with their food. Charlie took a quick bite of rice
noodles and immediately burned her mouth. She grabbed her water glass and
drank. “Yikes, that’s hot!” she said. “So what were you getting away from?”
She asked the question casually, as if the answer would be simple. Do you
have nightmares, too? She held back the words, waiting for him to speak.
John hesitated. “A … girl, actually,” he said. He paused, searching for a
reaction. Charlie stopped chewing; that wasn’t at all the answer she’d been
expecting. She swallowed, nodding with self-conscious enthusiasm. After an
excruciating silence, John went on.
“We started dating the summer after … after Freddy’s. I told her I wasn’t
looking for anything serious, she said she wasn’t, either. Then suddenly it was
six months later, and we were serious. I had just started working. I’d moved
out on my own, and had this grown-up relationship. It was a shock, but a
good one, I guess.” He stopped, not sure whether he should continue. Charlie
wasn’t sure she wanted to give him permission.
“So, tell me about her,” she said calmly, avoiding eye contact.
“She was—is, I mean. I’m not dating her, but it’s not like she’s dead. Her
name is Rebecca. She’s pretty, I guess. Smart. She’s a year older than me, a
college student studying English; has a dog. So yeah, she was all right.”
“What happened?”
“I don’t know,” he said.
“Really,” Charlie said drily, and he smiled.
“No. I felt … on guard around her. Like there were things I couldn’t tell
her, things she’d just never understand. It wasn’t because of her. She was
great. But she knew I was holding something back; she just didn’t know what
it was.”
“I wonder what it could have been?” Charlie asked quietly. The question
was rhetorical; they both knew the answer.
John smiled. “Well, anyway, she broke up with me, and I was devastated,
blah, blah, blah. Actually, I don’t think I was that devastated.” John looked
down, focusing on his food but not touching it.
“Have you ever tried to tell anyone about Freddy’s?” John glanced back up
and pointed his fork at Charlie. She shook her head. “It wasn’t just what
happened,” he went on. “I can’t imagine telling that story and having her
believe me, but it wasn’t only that. I wanted her to know the facts of it, but
more, I wanted to tell her what it did to me. How it changed me.”
“It changed all of us,” Charlie said.
“Yeah, and not just last year. From the beginning. I didn’t realize it until

after we’d all gone back, how much that place had just … followed me.” He
glanced at Charlie. “Sorry, it must be even weirder for you.”
Charlie shrugged uncomfortably. “Maybe. I think it’s just different.”
Her hand was resting on the table beside her water glass, and now John
reached out to touch it. She stiffened, and he drew back.
“Sorry,” he said. “I’m sorry.”
“It’s not you,” Charlie said quickly. His dead face, the dead skin of his
throat. She had barely noticed it at the time, overwhelmed by the whole
experience, but now the feeling of the dead man’s neck came back to her. It
was as if she were touching him right now. She could feel his skin, slack and
cold, and slick with blood; she could feel the blood on her fingers. She rubbed
her hands together. They were clean—she knew they were clean—but still she
could feel the blood. You’re being dramatic.
“I’ll be right back,” she said, and got up before John could respond. She
made her way around the tables to the bathrooms at the back of the restaurant.
It was a three-stall bathroom; thankfully it was empty. Charlie went straight to
the sink and turned the hot water on full-blast. She pumped soap onto her
hands and scrubbed them for a long time. She closed her eyes and focused on
the feeling of hot water and soap, and slowly the memory of blood faded. As
she dried her hands she looked at herself in the mirror: her reflection looked
wrong somehow, off, as if it wasn’t herself she saw, but a copy. Someone else
dressed as her. Get it together, Charlie, she thought, trying to hear the words
in Aunt Jen’s voice, as she had before. She closed her eyes. Get it together.
When she opened them again she was back in the mirror. Her reflection was
her own.
Charlie smoothed her hair, and went back out to the table, where John was
waiting for her with a concerned expression.
“Is everything okay?” he asked nervously. “Did I do something?”
Charlie shook her head. “No, of course not. It’s been a long day, that’s all.”
There’s an understatement. She glanced at her watch. “Do we still have time
for a movie?” she asked. “It’s almost eight thirty.”
“Yeah, we should go,” John said. “Are you done?”
“Yeah, it was really good, thank you.” She smiled at him. “The ‘lady’ liked
it.” John smiled back, visibly relaxing. He went to the counter to pay, and
Charlie went outside, waiting for him on the sidewalk. Dark had fallen, and
there was a chill in the air. Charlie wished briefly that she’d thought to bring a
sweatshirt. John joined her after a moment.
“Ready?”
“Yeah,” Charlie said. “Where is it?”
He looked at her for a moment and shook his head. “The movie was your
idea, remember?” He laughed.
“Like I said, I don’t get out much.” Charlie looked down at her feet.

“The theater’s only a few blocks away.”
They walked in silence for a while.
“I found out what happened to Freddy’s,” she said without thinking, and
John looked at her, surprised.
“Really? What happened?”
“They were tearing it down, then the storm came and everyone got called
away. Now it’s just standing there, half collapsed. All the stuff is gone,
though,” she added, seeing the question in John’s eyes. “I don’t know what
they did with … them.” It was a lie; Charlie couldn’t tell him what had really
happened without telling him how she knew. All those questions led back to
the same place: the dead man in the field. Who were you?
“What about your father’s house?” John asked. “Did you ask your aunt Jen
about it? What’s she going to do with it?”
“I don’t know,” Charlie said. “I haven’t talked to her since August.” She
fell silent, not looking at John as they walked.
They reached their destination, a shabby, one-screen movie theater named
the Grand Palace. Its name was either ironic or wishful thinking. Emblazoned
on the marquee was their current showing: Zombies vs. Zombies!
“I think it’s about zombies,” John joked as they went inside.
The movie had already started. Someone onscreen was screaming, as what
were apparently zombies came at her from all sides. She was surrounded. The
creatures crouched like wild dogs, ready to spring and devour her. They
moved to attack—and a man grabbed her arm, pulling her to safety.
“Charlie.” John touched her arm, whispering. “Over there.” He gestured to
the back row. The place was half-full, but the back row was empty, and they
made their way furtively to the middle. They sat, and Charlie turned her
attention to the screen. Thank goodness, she thought. Maybe we can finally
relax.
She settled back in her seat, letting the images on the screen blur past her.
Shrieks, gunfire, and thrumming music filled the silence between them. From
the corner of her eye she saw John glance at her nervously. Charlie focused
her attention on the movie. The main characters, a man and woman with the
generic, angular good looks of the big screen, were shooting automatic
weapons into a crowd of zombies. As the first ranks were killed—not killed,
stopped; though severed in half by the guns, they still twitched on the ground
—the ones behind climbed over their fallen cohorts. The camera switched
back to the man and woman, who jumped a fence and took off running.
Behind them the zombies kept coming, struggling forward, oblivious to the
undead bodies they waded through. The music was urgent, the baseline
pounding like an artificial heartbeat, and Charlie relaxed against the seat,
letting herself be absorbed into it all.
What was he doing there? The image of the dead man returned to her.

Something about the wounds bothered her, but she hadn’t been able to put her
finger on it. I recognized those wounds. They all matched what I remembered,
but something was different. What was it?
She sensed movement next to her, and saw John trying to stretch an arm
toward her. Really? she thought.
“Do you have enough room?” she asked him, and scooted away without
waiting for a response. He looked embarrassed, but she glanced away,
planting her elbow on the other armrest and staring fixedly at the screen.
Enough room, that’s it. She closed her eyes, concentrating on the image in
her head. The wounds were slightly larger and more spaced out. The suit he
was wearing was bigger than the suits from Freddy’s. The man was probably
five foot ten or five foot eleven, which means the suits must have been at least
seven feet tall.
Onscreen, there was quiet again, but it was short lived. Charlie watched,
mesmerized, as the dirt spilled away of its own volition, moving like magic as
the zombie rose. It wouldn’t be like that, Charlie thought definitively. It’s not
that easy to get out of a grave. By now the zombie onscreen was halfway out,
crawling to the surface and looking around with its glassy, mindless eyes. You
can’t get out that fast. Charlie blinked and shook her head, trying to stay
focused.
Zombies. Lifeless things. The closet was full of costumes, lifeless yet everwatching, with plastic eyes and dead, hanging limbs. Somehow their
corpselike stares had never bothered her, or Sammy. They liked to touch the
fur, sometimes put it in their mouths and giggle at the funny way it felt. Some
was old and matted; some new and soft. The closet was their place, just for
the two of them. Sometimes they babbled together in words that had meaning
only to them; sometimes they played side by side, lost in separate worlds of
make-believe. But they were always together. Sammy was playing with a truck
when the shadow came. He ran it back and forth on the floor, not noticing that
their ribbon of light had been cut off. Charlie turned and saw the shadow, so
still he could be an illusion, just another costume out of place. Then the
sudden movement, the chaos of fabric and eyes. The truck clanked as it fell to
the floor, and then: loneliness. A dark so complete that she began to believe
she’d never seen at all. The memories of sight had only been a dream, a trick
of the utter blackness. She tried to call his name—she could feel him nearby—
but all around her were solid walls. “Can you hear me? Sammy? Let me out!
Sammy!” But he was gone, and he was never there again.
“Charlie, are you okay?”
“What?” Charlie looked at John. She realized she’d pulled her feet up on
the chair and was hugging her knees to her chest. She sat back, setting her
shoes back on the floor. John gave her a concerned look. “I’m fine,” she
whispered, and gestured to the screen.

John put a hand on her forearm. “Are you sure you’re okay?” he asked.
Charlie stared straight ahead. Now there were people running, the zombies
lurching after them. “This doesn’t make sense,” Charlie muttered, mostly to
herself.
“What?” John leaned toward her.
Charlie didn’t move, but she repeated herself. “It doesn’t make sense.
Zombies don’t make sense; if they’re dead, the central nervous system is shot,
and they can’t do any of this. If there’s a functioning central nervous system,
which has somehow decayed to the point that movement and thought are
possible, but severely hindered, fine. If it makes them violent, fine. But why
would they want to eat brains? It doesn’t make sense.”
That man wouldn’t have been able to walk on his own in a suit so
oversized. He didn’t walk into that field; the suit did. The animatronic was
carrying him inside. It walked into that field of its own accord.
“Maybe it’s symbolic,” John suggested, eager to engage, however odd the
conversation. “You know, like the idea that you eat your enemy’s heart to gain
their power? Maybe the zombie eats its enemy’s brain to gain its … central
nervous system?” He glanced at Charlie, but she was only half listening.
“Okay,” she said. She’d been irritated by the movie, now she was irritated
by the conversation she herself had introduced. “I’ll be right back,” she told
John, and got up without waiting for him to respond. She made her way out of
the row, through the lobby, and out the door. On the sidewalk, she took a deep
breath and felt an intense relief at the wash of fresh air. Dreams about being
trapped are common, she reminded herself. She’d looked it up when they
began. They were only slightly less common than dreams of showing up to
class naked, plummeting from a great height, or having your teeth all
suddenly fall out. But this didn’t feel like a dream.
Charlie jostled her thoughts back to the present, where even the crime
scene of a gruesome murder seemed like a safer place to keep them.
There must be tracks. He didn’t walk there himself. There must be some
clue of what carried him into that field, and where it came from.
Charlie shivered. She went back inside the building. John’s going to think
I’m nuts. She arrived at the swinging theater doors and stopped—she couldn’t
do it. She had to know. There was a young man at the concession stand, and
she asked him if the place had a pay phone. He pointed silently to his right,
and Charlie went, fishing in her pocket for a quarter, and for Chief Burke’s
card.
She dialed carefully, pausing between numbers to check the card again, as
if the writing might have changed since she looked. Clay Burke answered on
the third ring.
“Burke.”
“Clay? It’s Charlie.”

“Charlie? What’s wrong?” He was instantly alert; Charlie could picture him
leaping to his feet, ready to run.
“Nothing, I’m fine,” she assured him. “Everything is okay, I just wanted to
see if you’ve found anything else.”
“Not so far,” he told her.
“Oh.” Burke let the silence stretch between them, and Charlie finally broke
it. “Is there anything else you can tell me? I know it’s confidential, but you’ve
brought me in this far. Please, if there’s anything else you know. Anything
else you found, anything you know about the man—the victim.”
“No,” Clay said slowly. “I mean, I’ll let you know when we find
something.”
“Okay,” Charlie said. “Thanks.”
“I’ll be in touch.”
“Okay.” Charlie hung up the phone before he could say good-bye. “I don’t
believe you,” she said to the phone on the wall.
Back in the theater, her eyes took a moment to adjust as she inched along
the back row toward her seat, careful not to make noise. John looked up at her
with a smile as she sat down, but didn’t say anything. Charlie smiled back
with a grim determination, and settled back in her seat, then scooted over until
her shoulder was pressed against his. From behind her head, she heard him
make a surprised noise, then he shifted, putting his arm around her shoulders.
He gripped her tightly for a moment, halfway to a hug, and Charlie leaned in
a little, unsure how else to reciprocate.
What if someone put him in the costume, like some kind of wind-up
deathtrap? Stuck him inside that thing, then sent it walking until the spring
locks went off. But who would know how to do that? Why would someone do
that?
“Did I miss anything?” Charlie asked, though she hadn’t paid any attention
to the first half of the movie anyway. It was daytime onscreen, and it looked
like there were more people, holed up in some sort of bunker. Charlie couldn’t
remember which of them had been the original characters. She wriggled in
her seat; John’s arm around her had relaxed, but now the arm of the seat was
digging into her side. He started to move away, but she settled herself again.
“No, it’s okay,” she whispered, and his arm circled her again. “Just get on
with it,” Charlie said, flustered. John startled.
“Sorry, I didn’t want to be too aggressive.”
“No, not you.” Charlie gestured toward the screen. “They should just build
a minefield around the bunker and wait for them to all blow up. The end.”
“I think that’s actually what they do in the sequel, but we’ll have to wait to
watch it for ourselves.” He winked.
“There’s another one?” She sighed.
When the credits started to roll, they gathered their things and headed to the

exits with the rest of the small crowd, not speaking until they got outside. On
the sidewalk, they stopped.
“This has been nice,” John said, sounding—somehow—like he meant it,
and Charlie laughed, then groaned, covering her face with both hands.
“This has been awful. This has been the worst date ever. I’m so sorry.
Thanks for lying, though.”
John gave an uncertain smile. “It was nice to see you,” he said with
cautious levity.
“It’s just—can we go somewhere to talk?”
John nodded, and Charlie started back toward campus with him following
behind.
The quad was usually empty late at night, or at least mostly empty. There
was always someone walking across, some student finishing up late night
work in a lab, some couple ensconced in a dark corner. Tonight was no
different, and it was easy enough to find their own dark corner to talk. Charlie
sat down under a tree, and John copied her, then waited for her to talk as she
stared at the gap between two buildings, where you could almost see the
woods.
Finally, he prompted her. “So what’s up?”
“Right.” She met his eyes. “Clay came to see me today.” John’s eyes
widened, but he didn’t say anything. “He took me to see a body,” Charlie
went on. “He had died inside one of the mascot costumes.”
John was frowning; she could almost see his thoughts, working through
what this meant, and why it involved Charlie.
“That’s not all: Clay told me that they found blood in the main dining room
at Freddy’s. Fake blood.”
John’s head jerked up. “You think Dave’s alive?”
Charlie shrugged. “Clay didn’t come out and say it. But all those scars—he
had survived the spring locks of a mascot costume before. He must have
known how to escape the building.”
“It didn’t look to me like he escaped,” John said doubtfully.
“He could have faked it; it would certainly explain the blood.”
“So what then? Dave is alive and stuffing people into spring-lock suits and
killing them?”
“If I could just go back to the restaurant one more time, to make sure that
—” Charlie stopped, suddenly aware of growing anger in John’s face.
“To make sure that what?” he asked sternly.
“Nothing. Clay has it under control. Everything is best left with the police.”
She clenched her jaw, gazing out over the horizon.
Jessica will go with me.
“Right,” John said with a surprised look. “Right, you’re right.”
Charlie nodded with forced enthusiasm.

“Clay has men for this sort of thing,” she continued with a furrowed brow.
“I’m sure they’re on top of it.”
John took Charlie’s shoulders lightly. “I’m sure it’s not what you think it is,
anyway,” he said in a hearty, reassuring tone. “There’s a lot of crime in this
world that doesn’t involve self-imploding furry robot suits.” He laughed and
Charlie forced a smile.
“Come on.” John extended a hand and Charlie took it. “I’ll walk you to
your dorm.”
“I appreciate the gesture,” she said. “But Jessica’s there, and we’d have to
go through the whole reunion, you know?”
John laughed. “Okay, I’ll save you from Jessica and her relentless
camaraderie.”
Charlie grinned. “My hero. Where are you staying, anyway?”
“That little motel you stayed at last year, actually,” John said. “I’ll see you
tomorrow maybe?”
Charlie nodded and watched him go, then started on her own way home.
Excruciating though the date had been, the last half hour felt like a
homecoming. It was her and John again; they were familiar again. “All we
needed was a good old-fashioned murder,” she said aloud, and a woman
walking her dog gave Charlie an odd look as she passed in the opposite
direction. “I was at a movie, Zombies vs. Zombies!” Charlie called
halfheartedly after her retreating back. “You should go check it out! They
don’t put mines around the bunker; spoiler alert.”
Charlie had half hoped Jessica would be asleep, but the lights were on
when she reached their room. She flung open the door before Charlie had her
key out of her pocket, her face flushed.
“So?” Jessica demanded.
“So what?” Charlie asked, grinning in spite of herself. “Hey, before you
start into this, I need to ask you something.”
“So you know what!” Jessica cried, ignoring her question. “Tell me about
John. How did it go?”
Charlie felt the corner of her mouth twitch. “Oh, you know,” she said
casually. “Listen, I need you to go somewhere with me in the morning.”
“Charlieee! You have to tell me!” Jessica moaned exaggeratedly, and
flopped back on her bed. Then she sprang back up into a sitting position.
“Come here and tell me!” Charlie sat, drawing her legs up under her.
“It was weird,” she admitted. “I didn’t know what to say. Dates just seem
so … uncomfortable. But about what I was saying—”
“But it’s John. Shouldn’t that outweigh the ‘date’ part?”
“Well, it didn’t,” Charlie said. She looked at the floor. She could tell her
face was red, and suddenly she wished she hadn’t told Jessica anything at all.
Jessica put her hands on Charlie’s shoulders and looked at her seriously.

“You are amazing, and if John isn’t just falling all over himself for you, that’s
his problem.”
Charlie giggled. “I think he kind of is. It’s part of the problem. But there is
something else if you would just listen for a second.”
“Oh, there’s more?” Jessica laughed. “Charlie! You need to save something
for the second date, you know.”
“What? No, no. NO! I need you to go somewhere with me in the morning.”
“Charlie I have a lot going on right now; I have exams coming up, and …”
“I need you …” Charlie clenched her jaw for a moment. “I need you to
help me pick out new clothes for my next date,” she said carefully, then
waited to see if Jessica would believe a word of it.
“Charlie are you kidding me? We’ll go first thing in the morning!” She
jumped up and gave Charlie a giant hug. “We’ll have a girls’ day out! It will
be amazing!” Jessica flopped back to her bed. “Sleep for now, though.”
“It won’t bother you if I work on my project for a while, will it?”
“Not at all.” Jessica waved limply, then went still.
* * *
Charlie turned on her work lamp: a single, bright beam that was focused
enough to not illuminate the whole room. She uncovered the faces; they were
at rest, their features smooth as if in sleep, but she didn’t turn them on yet.
The switches that made them move and talk were only one part of the whole.
There was another component: the part that made them listen was always on.
Everything that she and Jessica said, every word spoken in the room, outside
the window, or even in the hall, they heard. Each new word went into their
databases, not only as a single word, but in all its configurations as they
emerged. Each new piece of information was stuck to the piece of information
most like it; everything new was built on something old. They were always
learning.
Charlie turned on the component that allowed them to speak. Their features
rippled softly, as if they were stretching themselves.
I know, said the first, more quickly than usual.
So what? said the second.
Know what?
You know so what?
Know what?
Now what?
What now?
Know how?
Why now?
Charlie switched them off, staring as the fans slowed to a stop. That didn’t
make sense. She looked at her watch. It was about three hours too late for bed.

She changed quickly and climbed under the sheets, leaving the faces
uncovered. There was something unnerving about their exchange. It was
faster than it had ever been, and it was nonsensical, but there was something
about it that rang familiar—it struck her.
“Were you playing a game?” she asked. They couldn’t answer, and just
stared blankly into each other’s eyes.

She removed the pillowcase gently, taking care not to let it catch on anything.
Beneath their shroud, the faces, blank and sightless, were placid; they looked
like they could wait, ever listening, for eternity. Charlie switched them on,
and bent over to watch as they began to move their plastic mouths without
sound, practicing.
Where? said the first.
Here, said the second.
Where? said the first again. Charlie drew back. Something was wrong with
the voice; it sounded strained.
Here, repeated the second.
Where? said the first with a rising intonation, like it was growing upset.
That’s not supposed to happen! Charlie thought, alarmed. They shouldn’t
be able to modulate their voices.
Where? the first wailed, and Charlie stepped back. She leaned down slowly
to peer under the desk, as though she might find an entanglement of wires that
would explain the strange behavior. As she stared, puzzled, a baby began to
cry. She stood at once, knocking her head painfully on the edge of the desk.
The two faces looked suddenly more human, and more childlike. One was
crying, the other watching with an astonished look on its face. “It’s okay,”
said the calmer face. “Don’t leave me!” The other wailed as it turned to look
at Charlie.
“I’m not going to leave you!” Charlie cried. “Everything will be okay!”
The sound of crying swelled, higher and louder than human voices should be,
and Charlie covered her ears, looking desperately around for someone to
help. Her bedroom had darkened, and heavy things hung from the ceiling.

Matted fur brushed her face, and her heart jolted: the children are not safe.
She turned back, but an acre of fabric and fur had somehow fallen between
her and the wailing babies.
“I’ll find you!” She shoved her way through, tripping on limbs that
dragged on the ground. The costumes swung wildly, like trees in a storm, and
a little distance away, something fell to the floor with a hard clunk. At last,
she reached her desk, but they were gone. The howling went on and on, so
loud Charlie couldn’t hear herself think, even as she realized that the
screaming was her own.
Charlie sat up with a loud, raw gasp, as if she had actually been screaming.
“Charlie?” It was John’s voice. Charlie looked around with one bleary eye
to see a head peering through the bedroom door.
“Give me a minute!” Charlie called as she sat up straight. “Get out!” she
cried, and John’s head shrank back; the door closed. She felt shaky, her
muscles weak. She’d been holding them tense in her sleep. She changed
quickly into clean clothes and tried to brush her slightly tangled hair into
something more manageable, then opened the door.
John poked his head in again, taking a cautious look around.
“Okay, come in. It’s not booby-trapped, though maybe it should be,”
Charlie joked. “How did you get in here?”
“Well, it was open, and I …” John trailed off as he took in the room around
him, momentarily distracted by the mess. “I thought maybe we could go to
breakfast? I have to work across town in about forty minutes, but I have some
time.”
“Oh, what a nice thought, but I … ,” she said. “Sorry for the mess. It’s my
project, I sort of get wrapped up in it and forget to—clean.” She glanced at
her desk. The pillowcase was in place as it should be, the vague outlines of
the faces just visible beneath it. It was just a dream.
John shrugged. “Yeah? What’s the project?”
“Um, language. Sort of.” She looked around the room curiously. Where had
Jessica wandered off to? Charlie knew John would be suspicious of her
sudden, unprecedented interest in clothes shopping, and was hoping to avoid
explanations. “Natural language programming,” she went on. “I’m taking …
computer programming classes.” At the last moment, something stopped her
from saying the word robotics. John nodded. He was still eyeing the mess,
and Charlie couldn’t tell what had caught his attention. She plunged back into
her explanation. “So, I’m working on teaching language—spoken language—
to computers.” She walked briskly to the door and peered out into the hall.
“Don’t computers already know language?” John called.
“Well, yeah,” Charlie said as she returned to the room. She looked at John.
His face had changed, stripped down to something more adult. But she could
still see him as he’d been the year before, captivated as he watched her old

mechanical toys. I can tell him.
But then a look of alarm crossed John’s face. He surged forward to her bed,
stopping a few inches from it. He pointed.
“Is that Theodore’s head?” he asked carefully.
“Yeah,” Charlie said. She walked to the windows and peeped through the
blinds, trying to spot Jessica’s car.
“So you have been to the house?”
“No. Well, yeah. I went back once,” she confessed. “To get him.” She
looked back at John guiltily.
He shook his head. “Charlie, you don’t have to explain yourself,” he said.
“It’s your house.” He grabbed the chair from her desk and sat down. “Why
did you take him apart?”
She studied his face worriedly, wondering if he was already asking himself
the next, obvious question: What if it runs in the family?
“I wanted to see how he worked,” Charlie said. She spoke carefully, feeling
like she had to appear as rational as possible. “I would have taken Stanley and
Ella, too, but, you know.”
“They’re bolted to the floor?”
“Pretty much, yeah. So I took Theodore; I’m actually using some of his
components in my project.” Charlie looked down at the disembodied bunny’s
head, into its blank glass eyes. Took him apart. Using his component parts.
That sounds rational.
She had gotten Theodore from her father’s house just before school began.
Jessica hadn’t been home. It was early evening, not quite dark, and Charlie
had smuggled Theodore inside her backpack. She took him out, set him on the
bed, and pressed the button to make him talk. As before, there was nothing
but a strangled sound: “—ou—lie,” the scrambled, decayed traces of her
father’s voice. Charlie had felt a pang of anger at herself for even trying.
“You sound pretty awful,” she said harshly to Theodore, who just looked
up at her blankly, immune to the reprimand. Charlie rifled through her bag of
tools and parts, which hadn’t yet taken over her side of the room. She found
her utility knife, then went grimly to her bed where the bunny waited.
“I’ll put you back together when I’m done.” Right.
She looked up at John now, saw the doubt on his face. Or maybe it was
concern, just like Jessica. “Sorry, I know everything’s a mess,” she said,
hearing the edge in her own voice. “Maybe I’m a mess, too,” she added
quietly. She set the bunny’s head down on her pillow, and the part of his leg
beside it. “So, do you still want to see my project?” she asked.
“Yes.” He smiled reassuringly and followed her to her desk. Charlie
hesitated, looking down at the pillowcase. Just a dream.
“So,” she said nervously. Charlie carefully switched everything on before
unveiling the faces. Lights began to blink and fans began to whir. She glanced

at John again, and took off the cloth.
The faces moved in little patterns, as if stretching out after waking, though
there was little they could stretch. Charlie swallowed nervously.
You, me, said the first one, and Charlie heard John make a surprised sound
behind her.
Me, said the second. Charlie held her breath, but they fell silent.
“Sorry, they usually say more,” Charlie said. She grabbed a small object
from the table and held it up: it was an oddly shaped piece of clear plastic
with wiring inside. John frowned for a moment.
“Is that a hearing aid?” he asked, and Charlie nodded enthusiastically.
“It used to be. It’s something I’m experimenting with: they listen all the
time, they pick up everything that’s said around them, but they’re just
collecting data, not interacting with it. They can only interact with each
other.” She paused, waiting for a sign that John understood. He nodded, and
she went on. “I’m still working out the kinks, but this thing should make the
person wearing it … visible to them. Not literally visible, I mean—they can’t
see—but they’ll recognize the person wearing the device as one of them.” She
looked expectantly at John.
“Why … What does that mean?” he asked, seeming to search for words.
Charlie closed her hand on the earpiece, frustrated. He doesn’t understand.
“I made them. I want to interact with them,” she said. His expression grew
thoughtful, and she looked away, suddenly regretting having shown him the
object. “Anyway, it’s not really finished.” She edged to the door and glanced
out.
“It’s really cool,” John called after her. When Charlie returned from the
hallway, he gave her an odd look. “Is everything okay?”
“Yes. You should go, though. You’ll be late for work.” Charlie approached
the faces. She looked down thoughtfully at her creations, then sighed and
reached for the pillowcase to cover them. As she did, the second face moved.
It jerked back on its stand and pivoted, locking its blind eyes on Charlie’s.
She stared back. It was like looking at a statue; the eyes were only raised
bumps in the molded plastic. But Charlie swallowed hard, feeling herself
rooted to the spot. She studied the blank gaze until John put a hand on her
shoulder. She jumped, startling him as well, then looked down at the earpiece
in her hand. “Oh, right,” Charlie mumbled, and pressed the tiny power button
on the side of it. She placed the earpiece carefully on top of the mess in her
desk drawer, then closed the drawer. The face was still for a moment, then it
slowly turned back to its place. It settled there, locked in a mirrored stare with
its double, as if it had never moved at all. Charlie covered them and switched
them off, leaving them with only enough power to listen.
At last she looked up at John. “Sorry!” she said.
“Does that mean no to breakfast?”

“I have plans this morning,” Charlie said. “Me and Jessica. You know, girl
stuff.”
“Really?” John said quietly. “Girl stuff? You?”
“Yes! Girl stuff!” Jessica squealed as she entered the room excitedly.
“Shopping; I finally convinced Charlie it’s worth trying on her clothes before
she buys them. We might even move past jeans and boots! Are you ready?”
“Ready!” Charlie smiled, and John squinted at her.
Jessica began escorting him gently out the door. “Right,” John said. “I’ll
see you later then, Charlie?” Charlie didn’t respond, but Jessica gave a bright
smile as she closed the door behind him.
“So.” Jessica clasped her hands. “Where do you want to start today?”
* * *
When they got to the parking lot of the abandoned mall, it was early
afternoon.
“Charlie, this isn’t what I had in mind,” Jessica cried as they got out of the
car. Charlie started for the entrance, but Jessica didn’t follow. When Charlie
turned, she was leaning against the car with her arms crossed.
“What are we doing here?” Jessica asked, her eyebrows raised.
“We have to look inside,” Charlie said. “People’s lives might depend on it.
I just want to see if there is anything left of Freddy’s, then we can go.”
“Whose lives depend on it? And why now, suddenly?” Jessica asked.
Charlie looked at her shoes. “I just want to see,” she said. She felt like a
petulant child, but she couldn’t bring herself to tell Jessica the whole story.
“Is this because John is here?” Jessica asked suddenly, and Charlie looked
up, surprised.
“What? No.”
Jessica sighed and uncrossed her arms. “It’s okay, Charlie. I get it. You
haven’t seen him since all of this happened, and then he shows up again—of
course it brings everything back.”
Charlie nodded, gratefully latching on to this rationale. It was easier than
hiding the truth from her. “I doubt there’s much left, anyway,” she said. “I just
want to walk through and remind myself that—”
“That it’s really over?” Jessica finished. She smiled, and Charlie’s heart
sank.
It’s really, really not over. She forced a smile. “Something like that.”
Charlie walked quickly through the mall, but Jessica lagged behind. The
place felt entirely different. Sunlight poured in through massive gaps in the
unfinished walls and ceiling. Shafts of light sifted between smaller cracks and
splashed against stacks of concrete slabs. Charlie could see moths—maybe
butterflies—hovering at the windows, and as they passed through the empty
halls on their way to Freddy’s, she could hear birds chirping. The deathly

quiet she remembered, the overpowering sense of dread, was gone. Yet,
Charlie thought as she glanced at the half-constructed storefronts, it still felt
haunted, maybe even more than before. It was a different kind of haunting,
not frightening. But Charlie had the sense that something was present, like
stepping onto hallowed ground.
“Hello,” Charlie said softly, not sure whom she was addressing.
“Do you hear something?” Jessica slowed her pace.
“No. It feels smaller.” Charlie gestured at the open mouths of the neveropened department stores, and the end of the hall ahead of them. “It seemed
so intimidating last time.”
“It actually seems kind of peaceful.” Jessica spun in place, enjoying the air
from outside, which was flowing freely through the empty spaces.
Jessica followed Charlie through the doorway and they stopped dead,
blinded by bright sunlight. Freddy’s had been torn apart. Some of the walls
still stood—the far end looked almost intact—but in front of her was a field of
debris. Old bricks and broken tiles were strewn in the dirt.
The two of them stood now on a slab of concrete that lay baking in the sun.
The passage inward, along with the entire side wall of the restaurant, was
gone. The walls and ceiling were just a line of rubble against the trees. The
concrete walkway was still there, worn dark by years of dank and leaking
pipes.
“So much for Freddy’s,” Jessica said in a hushed voice, and Charlie
nodded.
They made their way through the debris. Charlie could make out where the
main dining room had been, but everything was gone. The tables and chairs,
the checkered cloths, and the party hats had all been removed. The merry-goround had been ripped out, leaving nothing but a hole in the floor and some
stray wires. The stage itself had been assaulted, though not removed. They
must have been in the middle of that when the job was stopped. Boards were
torn up across the main stage area, and the left-hand set of stairs was gone.
What was left of the wall behind the stage broke off at the top, like jagged
mountains along the sky.
“Are you okay?” Jessica looked to Charlie.
“Yeah. It’s not what I expected, but I’m okay.” She thought for a moment.
“I want to see what’s still here.” Charlie gestured to the stage, and they
crossed what was left of the dining area. The floorboards cracked, the
linoleum torn. Jessica peered under a pile of rock where arcade machines had
been. The consoles that had stood like dusty gravestones were gone, but they
could see the outlines of each one. Square patches remained where they’d
been torn from their posts. Stray wires huddled in small piles in the corners.
Charlie turned her attention back to the main stage. She climbed up to where
the animatronic animals had once performed.

“Careful!” Jessica cried. Charlie nodded an absent acknowledgment. She
stood to one side, remembering the layout. This is where Freddy stood. The
boards were torn up in front of her and in two more places—the destruction
here was where they had taken out the pivoting plates that bolted the mascots
to the stage. Not that they stayed bolted very long, Charlie thought wryly. She
could see it now if she closed her eyes. The animals were going through their
programmed motions, faster and faster, until it was clear they were out of
control. Moving wildly, as if they were afraid. They were rocking on their
stands, and then the awful sound of cracking wood as Bonnie lifted his bolted
foot and tore himself free of the stage.
Charlie shook her head, trying to rid herself of the image. She made her
way to the back of the stage. The lights were all gone, but a skeleton of
exposed beams crisscrossed the open sky where the lights had been.
“Jessica!” she called. “Where are you?”
“Down here!”
She followed the sound of the girl’s voice. Jessica was crouched in the
place where the control room had been, peering into the gap under the stage.
“Nothing?” Charlie asked, not sure what answer she was hoping for.
“It’s been gutted,” Jessica said. “No monitors, nothing.” Charlie climbed
down beside her, and they peered in together.
“This is where we were trapped last time,” Jessica said quietly. “Me and
John; there was something at the door, and the lock caught. I thought we
would be stuck in that little room and …” She looked at Charlie, who simply
nodded. The horrors of that night were unique to each of them. The moments
that beset them in their sleep, or assailed their thoughts without warning in the
middle of the day, were private.
“Come on,” Charlie said abruptly, heading again toward the mound of
rubble where more games had been. Charlie crouched under a large slab that
leaned to the side and acted as a doorway to what was left of the place.
“This seems dangerous.” Jessica tiptoed over the loose rock.
The floor was still covered in carpet in most places, and Charlie could see
the deep grooves where the arcade machine had been. She hurled herself at
the console, and somehow, it was enough. It wobbled on its base, then fell,
knocking Foxy to the ground and pinning him there. She ran, but he was too
quick: he caught her by the leg and ripped his hook right through her; she
screamed, staring down at the snapping, twisted metal jaws, and the burning,
silver eyes. She heard a noise, almost a whimper, and realized it was her. She
clapped her hands over her mouth.
“I thought we were all going to die,” Jessica whispered.
“Me too,” Charlie said. They looked at each other for a moment, an eerie
stillness settling over the sunlit wreckage.
“Hey, this place is probably going to fall on us soon, so …” Jessica broke

the silence, gesturing to the leaning slabs of concrete surrounding them.
Charlie crawled back out the way they’d come and stood up. Her knees were
crawling with pins and needles. She rubbed them, then stomped the ground.
“I want to check the costume room, see if anything is left,” Charlie said
without expression.
“You mean to see if anybody is left?” Jessica shook her head.
“I have to know.” Charlie gave her jeans a final brush and started off
toward it.
The room stuck out of the rubble, alone and intact. It was the place where
the costumes had been kept, and where Carlton had briefly been held prisoner.
Charlie cautiously poked her head inside, studying the physical details around
her: the chipped paint on the wall, the carpet that someone had begun to tear
up but left unfinished. Don’t think about last time. Don’t think about what
happened here. She let her eyes adjust a moment longer, then went inside.
The room was empty. They did a cursory search, but everything had been
removed—there was nothing left but walls, floor, and ceiling.
“Clay did say they had gotten rid of everything,” Charlie said.
Jessica gave her a sharp look. “Clay? When?”
“He said he was going to, I mean,” Charlie said hastily, covering the slip.
“Last year.”
They took a final look around. As they were leaving, Charlie spotted a glint
of light from something in the corner. It was the plastic eyeball of some
unknown animatronic mascot. Charlie was about to go to it, but stopped
herself. “There’s nothing here,” she said.
Not waiting for Jessica, she headed back through the debris, looking down
at her feet as she stepped over bricks and stones and shattered glass.
“Hey, wait,” Jessica called after her hastily. “Pirate’s Cove. Charlie! Look!”
Charlie stopped. She watched Jessica as she climbed over a steel beam and
stepped carefully over the remains of a fallen wall. In front of her, a curtain
lay strewn across what had appeared to be a pile of rubble. Charlie followed
her, and when she caught up she could see that the curtain concealed a gap in
the ruins. The tops of a few glittering chairs peeked out from the stones. A
row of broken stage lights lay across the top of the curtain, as though holding
it in place.
“It looks pretty good, compared to the rest of the place,” Jessica said.
Charlie didn’t answer. There was a dirty poster lying flat on the ground,
depicting a cartoonish Foxy delivering pizzas to happy children.
“Jessica, look.” Charlie pointed to the ground.
“Those look like claw marks,” Jessica said after a moment.
There were long scratches and scrapes running the length of the floor, and
dark marks that looked like traces of blood. “It’s like someone was being
dragged.” Jessica stood and followed the scratches. They led behind the

curtain, away from the area where Pirate’s Cove once stood.
“The stage,” Jessica said.
When they moved the curtain aside, they found the stage had a small hatch
at the back. “Storage,” Charlie murmured. She pulled on it, but the hatch
wouldn’t open.
“There has to be a latch somewhere,” Jessica said. She cleared away dirt
and broken wood from the base of the stage, uncovering a deadbolt that went
into the floor. She pulled it up, releasing the door, which swung open like
something was pushing against it.
A face lurched out of the darkness, two gaping eyes swinging forward.
Jessica screamed and fell backward. Charlie recoiled. The masked face hung
lifelessly from a rotted fur costume. An entire mascot suit was inside,
crammed into a space much too small for it. Charlie stopped, her whole body
numb with shock as she stared at the thing with a dread almost as old as she
was. “The yellow rabbit,” she whispered.
“It’s Dave,” Jessica gasped. Charlie took a deep breath, forcing herself
back into the present.
“Come on, help me,” she said She stepped forward and grabbed at the
fabric, pulling on whatever she could reach.
“You’re kidding. I’m not touching that thing.”
“Jessica! Get over here!” Charlie commanded, and Jessica came reluctantly
over.
“Ew, ew, ew.” Jessica touched the suit, then recoiled. She gave Charlie a
flat look and tried again, yanking her hands away as soon as she touched it.
“Ew,” she repeated quietly, then finally screwed her eyes shut and took hold
of it.
Together they pulled, but nothing happened. “I think it’s stuck,” Jessica
said. They shifted positions and finally heaved the mascot out of the cramped
space. The fabric caught on stray nails and jagged wood, but Charlie kept
pulling. At last the creature was out, splayed heavily on the ground.
“I definitely don’t think Dave faked his own death,” Charlie said.
“What if it’s not him?” Jessica peered carefully into the face.
“It’s him.” Charlie looked at the dried blood soaked into the mascot’s
fingertips. “The spring locks might not have killed him right away, but this is
where he died.”
They could see Dave’s body through the gaps in the costume, and the wide
carved eyes of the mascot head showed through to his face. His skin was
desiccated and shriveled. His eyes were wide open, his face expressionless
and discolored. Charlie moved closer again. Her initial shock had passed, and
now she was curious to see more of him. She probed carefully at first, in case
some of the spring locks inside might still be waiting to snap, but it was clear
that they’d already done their damage. The locks had been driven so deeply

into his skin that the bases of each were flush against his neck; they looked
like part of him.
Charlie studied the chest of the costume. There were large tears in the
yellow fabric, which had gone green and pink with mold in patches. She
grabbed hold of the sides and pulled the gap open as wide as she could.
Jessica watched, fascinated, her hand over her mouth. Skewers of metal
protruded through his entire body, dull and crusted with his blood. And there
were more complex parts, twisted knots of gore with many layers of
machinery that stuck out from his body. The suit’s fabric was stiff with blood,
too, yet the man didn’t seem to have rotted, despite the year that had passed.
“It’s like he’s fused with the suit,” Charlie said. She tugged at the mascot
head, trying to pull it off, but gave up quickly. The gaping eyes stared up at
her, behind which was the dead man’s face. With the light directly on him,
Dave’s skin appeared sickly and discolored. Charlie felt a sudden rush of
nausea. She pulled back from the corpse and looked up at Jessica.
“So now what?” Jessica said. “Did you want to give him a foot massage,
too?” She abruptly turned her head away, gagging at her own joke.
“Listen, I have class in …” Charlie checked her watch. “About an hour.
Did you still want to do some shopping?”
“Why can’t I have normal friends?” Jessica groaned.

We are learning all the time. Hopefully at least some of you are learning
right here in this class.” Dr. Treadwell’s students laughed nervously, but she
continued over them; it had apparently not been a joke. “When we learn, our
minds must decide where we will store that information. Unconsciously we
determine what group of things it is most relevant to and connect it to that
group. This is, of course, only the most rudimentary explanation. When
computers do this, we call it an information tree …”
Charlie was only half listening; she knew this already and was taking her
notes on autopilot. Since their expedition to Freddy’s the day before, she
hadn’t been able to get the image of Dave’s body out of her head: his torso
and the gruesome lace of scars that had covered it. When he was alive, he’d
shown them off to her, boasting of his survival. While he never told her what
had happened, it must have been an accident. He used to wear those suits all
the time. She could see him now, before all the murders, dressed as a yellow
bunny and dancing merrily with a yellow bear … she shook her head
suddenly, trying to get rid of the image.
“Are you okay?” Arty whispered. She nodded, waving him off.
But the dead man in the field—that wasn’t an accident. Someone forced him
inside. But why? Charlie restlessly tapped her fingers on her desk.
“That will be all for today.” Dr. Treadwell set down her chalk and stalked
off the auditorium stage with a purposeful step. Her teaching assistant, a
flustered graduate student, scurried forward to collect the homework.
“Hey, do you have any time to go over some of this?” Arty asked Charlie
as they gathered up their things. “I’m in a little bit over my head in this class.”
Charlie paused. She’d promised to make up her first date with John, but she

wasn’t meeting him for over an hour. Now that she’d been to Freddy’s,
Charlie almost felt like she was on familiar ground, even if it was soaked in
blood.
“I have some time now,” she told Arty, who lit up.
“Great! Thanks so much, we can go work over at the library.”
Charlie nodded. “Sure.” She followed him across the campus, only half
engaged as he explained his difficulties with the material.
They found a table, and Charlie opened her notebook to the pages she’d
taken down today, pushing them across so Arty could see them.
“Actually, do you mind if I sit next to you?” he asked. “It’s easier if we’re
both looking at the same thing, right?”
“Oh, yeah.” Charlie pulled her notes back over as he came around and sat
next to her, scooting his metal folding chair next to hers, just a few inches
closer than she would have preferred. “So, where did you get lost?” she asked
him.
“I was telling you on the way over,” he said, with a hint of reproach in his
voice, then cleared his throat. “I guess I understood the beginning of the
lecture, when she was reviewing last week’s material.”
Charlie laughed. “So, basically you want to review everything new from
today.”
Arty nodded sheepishly. Charlie started from the beginning, pointing at her
notes as she went. As she flipped through the pages, she noticed her own
scribbles in the margins. Charlie leaned in closer, where harsh outlines of
rectangles lined the bottom of the page. They were all colored in, like slabs of
granite. She stared at them with a sensation of déjà vu: they were important. I
don’t remember drawing that, she thought uneasily. Then, It’s just doodles.
Everybody doodles.
She turned the page to the next segment of the lecture, and a strange
alertness rose at the base of her neck, as if someone might be watching her.
There were more doodles in the margins of this page, too, and the next one.
All of them were rectangles. Some were large and some were small, some
scribbled and some outlined in so solidly that her pen had wet the paper
through and torn it. All of them were vertical, taller than they were wide.
Charlie stared, tilting her head to see from different angles, until something
pinged inside her.
Sammy, she thought, then, Is this you? Does this mean something I don’t
understand? Charlie glanced at Arty; he was staring at the paper, too. As she
watched, he turned the page again. The next pages were the same. They were
filled with neat, clear notes, but little rectangles were squashed into every
available spot on the page: stuffed into the space between bullet points,
crammed into the margins, and tucked away where lines came up short.
Quickly, Arty flipped the page back. He looked up at her and smiled, but his

eyes were wary.
“Why don’t you try the first problem here?” Charlie suggested.
Arty bent over his worksheet, and Charlie stared down at her notebook. Her
mind kept returning to her father’s house, and the shapes she’d drawn only
made the impulse stronger.
I have to go back.
“Are you okay?” Arty leaned in cautiously. Charlie stared down at her
notebook. Now that she’d noticed the rectangles, they seemed more
prominent than the notes; she could focus on nothing else. I have to go back.
Charlie shut the notebook and blinked hard. She ignored Arty’s question,
shoving the notebook into her backpack.
“I have to go,” she said as she stood up.
“But I’m still stuck on the first problem,” Arty said.
“I’m sorry, I really am!” she called over her shoulder as she hurried away.
She bumped into two people as she passed the circulation desk but was too
flustered to mutter an apology.
When she got to the door, she stopped, her guts twisting. There’s something
wrong. She hesitated, her hand suspended in the air, as if something was
blocking her path. She finally took hold of the knob, and instantly her hand
felt fused to it, as if by an electrical current. She couldn’t turn it, and she
couldn’t let go. Suddenly, the knob moved on its own; someone was turning it
from the other side. Charlie yanked her hand away and stepped back as a boy
with an enormous backpack brushed past her. Snapping back into the
moment, she slipped out before the door could swing shut again.
* * *
Charlie sped toward Hurricane, trying to calm herself as she drove. The
windows were cracked open and wind was rushing in. She thought back to
Treadwell’s lecture earlier in the week. At every moment, your senses are
receiving far more information than they can process all at once. Maybe that
was Arty’s problem in class. Charlie gazed at the mountains ahead, the open
fields on either side. Watching them go by, she began to feel like some
restraint had been loosened. She’d been spending too much time in her room
or in class, and not enough out in the world. It was making her jumpy,
exaggerating her natural awkwardness.
She rolled her window down farther, letting in the air. Over the field to her
right a few birds were circling—no. Charlie stopped the car. Something is
wrong. She got out, feeling ridiculous, but the last few days had put her on a
hair trigger. The birds were too large.
She realized they were turkey vultures, and some of them were already on
the ground, cautiously approaching what looked like a prone figure. Could be
anything. She leaned against the car. Probably just a dead animal. After

another moment, she turned back toward her car in frustration, but didn’t get
in.
It’s not a dead animal.
She clenched her teeth and started to the spot the vultures were circling. As
she got closer, the birds on the ground flapped their wings at the sight of her
and soared away. Charlie dropped to her knees.
It was a woman. Charlie’s eyes went first to her clothing. It was ripped up,
just like the dead man Clay Burke had shown her.
She leaned over to check the woman’s neck, though she knew what she
would find. There were deep, ugly gouges from the spring locks of an
animatronic suit. But before she could examine them closely, Charlie stopped,
horrified.
She looks just like me. The woman’s face was bruised and scratched, which
obscured her features. Charlie shook her head. It was easier to imagine more
of a resemblance than there really was. But her hair was brown and cut like
Charlie’s, and her face was the same round shape, with the same complexion.
Her features were different, but not that different. Charlie stood up and took a
deliberate step back from the woman, suddenly aware of how exposed she
was in the open field. Clay. I need to call Clay. She looked up at the sky,
wishing for a way to keep the vultures at bay, to protect the body. “I’m sorry,”
she whispered to the dead woman. “I’ll be back.”
Charlie started off to her car, then broke into a run, faster and faster across
the field until she ran like something was right behind her. She got in and
slammed the door, locking it as soon as she was inside.
Panting heavily, Charlie thought for a second. She was about halfway
between Hurricane and the school, but there was a gas station just down the
road where she could call Clay. With a last glance at the spot where the body
lay, Charlie pulled out onto the road.
* * *
The gas station seemed to be empty. As she arrived, Charlie realized that she
had never actually seen anyone fueling up here. Is this a working gas station?
The place was old and shabby, which she had noticed in passing, but she’d
never stopped to look around. The pumps looked functional, though not new,
and there was no shelter above them. They simply stood on concrete blocks in
the middle of a gravel driveway, exposed to the weather.
The little building attached to the station might have been painted white
once, but the paint had worn down to reveal gray boards underneath. It
seemed to be tilting slightly, slipping on its foundation. There was a window,
but it was filthy, almost the same color gray as the building’s outside walls.
Charlie hesitated, then went to the door and knocked. A young man answered,
about Charlie’s age, wearing a St. John’s College T-shirt and jeans.

“Yeah?” he said, giving her a blank stare.
“Are you—open?”
“Yeah.” He was chewing gum and wiped his hands on a grimy rag. Charlie
took a deep breath.
“I really need to use your phone.” The boy opened the door and let her in.
There was more space inside than she’d thought. In addition to the counter,
there was a convenience store, though most of the shelves were empty and the
line of refrigerators at the back was dark. The young man was looking at
Charlie expectantly.
“Can I use your phone?” she asked again.
“Phone’s for customers only,” he said.
“Okay.” Charlie glanced back at her car. “I’ll get gas on the way out.”
“Pump’s broken; maybe you want something out of the cooler,” he said,
nodding at a grimy freezer with a sliding glass top and a faded patch of red
paint that must once have been a logo. “We’ve got Popsicles.”
“I don’t want—fine, I’ll take a Popsicle,” Charlie said.
“Pick out any one you want.”
Charlie leaned into the cooler.
Pale, glassy eyes stared back at her. Beneath them was a furry red muzzle,
its mouth open and poised to snap.
Charlie screamed and hurtled backward, banging into the shelf behind her.
Several cans fell off the shelf and rolled across the floor. The sound echoed in
the empty space.
“What is that?” Charlie yelled, but the boy was cackling so hard he was
gasping for breath. Peering back inside, Charlie realized that someone had
placed a taxidermic animal in the cooler, maybe a coyote.
“That was great!” he finally managed to say. Charlie drew herself up,
shaking with rage.
“I would like to use your phone now,” she said coldly.
The boy beckoned her to the counter, all smiles, and handed her a rotary
phone. “No long distance, though,” he warned. Charlie turned her back and
dialed, walking toward the cooler as the phone rang. She peered in the top,
studying the stuffed canine from the high angle.
“Clay Burke here.”
“Clay, it’s Charlie. Listen, I need you to meet me. It’s another …” She
glanced at the young man behind the counter, who was watching her intently,
not trying to hide the fact that he was listening. “It’s like that thing you
showed me before, with the cows.”
“What? Charlie, where are you?”
“I’m at a gas station a few miles from you. Looks like someone painted an
outhouse.”
“Hey!” The boy behind the counter straightened for a moment, taking

offense.
“Right, I know where you’re at. I’ll be right there.” There was a click from
the other end.
“Thanks for the phone,” Charlie said begrudgingly, and left without waiting
for a reply.
* * *
Charlie crouched again where the woman’s body lay. She looked anxiously up
the road for Clay’s car, but it didn’t appear. At least the vultures hadn’t
returned.
I could just stay in the car until he gets here, she thought. But Charlie
didn’t move from her spot. This woman had died horribly and been
abandoned in a field. Now, at least, she didn’t have to be alone.
The more Charlie looked at her, the harder it was to dismiss the
resemblance. Charlie shivered, even though the sun was warm on her back.
She was filling with a cold, crawling dread.
“Charlie?”
Charlie spun around to see Clay Burke, then sighed and shook her head.
“Sorry, I got here as fast as I could,” he said lightly.
She smiled. “It’s okay. I’m just on edge today. I think that’s the third time
I’ve jumped in the air when someone said my name.”
Clay wasn’t listening. His eyes were fixed on the body. He knelt carefully
beside it, scrutinizing it. Charlie could almost see him filing every detail
away. She held her breath, not wanting to disturb him.
“Did you touch the body?” he asked sharply, not looking away from the
corpse.
“Yes,” she admitted. “I checked to see if she had the same injuries as the
man.”
“Did she?”
“Yes. I think—I know she was killed the same way.”
Clay nodded. Charlie watched as he got up and circled the woman,
dropping down to look more closely at her head, and again at her feet. Finally,
he turned his attention to Charlie again.
“How did you find her?” he asked.
“I saw birds—vultures—circling above the field. I went to check.”
“Why did you go to check?” His eyes were hard, and Charlie felt a trickle
of fear. Surely Clay didn’t suspect her.
Why wouldn’t he? she thought. Who else would know how to use the spring
locks? I bet he could come up with a million theories about me. Twisted girl
avenges father’s death. Acts out psychodrama. Film at eleven. She took a
deep breath, meeting Clay’s eyes.
“I checked because of the body you showed me. It was in a field—I

thought it might be another one.” She kept her voice as steady as she could.
Clay nodded, the steely expression slipping from his face, replaced by worry.
“Charlie, this girl looks like you,” he said bluntly.
“Not that much like me.”
“She could be your twin,” Clay said.
“No,” Charlie said, more harshly than she intended. “She looks nothing like
my twin.” Clay gave her a puzzled look, then comprehension dawned.
“I’m sorry. You had a twin, didn’t you? Your brother.”
“I barely remember him,” she said softly, then swallowed. All I do is
remember him. “I know she looks like me,” she added weakly.
“We’re right near a college town,” Clay said. “She’s a young white female
with brown hair—you’re not a rare type, Charlie. No offense.”
“Do you think it’s a coincidence?”
Clay didn’t look at her. “There was another body found this morning,” he
said.
“Another girl?” Charlie drew closer.
“Yes, as a matter of fact. Been dead for a couple of days, probably killed
two nights ago.” Charlie looked down at him in alarm.
“Does that mean this is going to keep happening?”
“Unless you think we can stop it,” he said. Charlie nodded.
“I can help,” she said. She looked again at the woman’s face. She’s nothing
like me. “Let me go to her house,” she added abruptly, seized by a sudden
impulse to prove it, to gather evidence that she and the victim were not the
same.
“What? Her house?” Clay said, giving her a dubious look
“You asked me to help,” Charlie said. “Let me help.”
Clay didn’t answer; instead he reached into the woman’s pockets one by
one, searching for her wallet. He had to move the body to do it, and she jerked
a little as he did, like a ghastly puppet. Charlie waited, and at last he came
back with her wallet. He handed Charlie her driver’s license.
“Tracy Horton,” she read. “She doesn’t look like a Tracy.”
“You got the address?” Clay scanned the road for police cars. Charlie read
it quickly and handed the license back. “I’m going to give you twenty minutes
before I radio this in,” he told her. “Use it.”
* * *
Tracy Horton had lived in a small house off a back road. Her nearest
neighbors’ houses were visible, but Charlie couldn’t imagine they would have
heard her scream. If she’d managed to scream at all. There was a small blue
car in the driveway, but if Tracy had been taken from her home—since
presumably she hadn’t just been wandering through that field—it could easily
have been hers.

Charlie pulled in behind the car and went to the front door. She knocked,
wondering what she was going to do if someone answered. I really should
have thought this through. She couldn’t be the one to inform a parent, spouse,
or sibling of the young woman’s death. Why did I assume she lived alone?
No one answered. Charlie tried again, and when there was still no response,
she tried the door. It was unlocked.
Charlie walked quietly through the house, not really sure what she was
looking for. She glanced at her watch—ten of the twenty minutes had passed
just driving here, and she had to assume that the police would get here faster
than she did. Why did I follow the speed limit the whole way here? The living
room and kitchen were clean, but they conveyed no information to her.
Charlie didn’t know what peach-painted walls said about a person, or the fact
that there were three dining room chairs instead of four. There were two
bedrooms. One had the sterile air of a guest room that was slowly being taken
over by storage; the bed was made and clean towels were folded on the chest
of drawers, but cardboard boxes filled a quarter of the room.
The other bedroom looked lived-in. The walls were green, the bedspread
pale blue, and there were piles of clothing on the floor. Charlie stood in the
doorway for a moment, and found she could not go inside. I don’t even know
what I’m looking for. This woman’s life would be sifted through to the last
grain by trained investigators. Her diary would be read, if she had one; her
secrets would be revealed, if she had any. Charlie didn’t need to be a part of
it. She turned and walked quickly but quietly back to the front of the house,
almost running down the front steps. Standing by the car, she checked her
watch again. Six minutes before Clay called in the body.
Charlie went to the little blue car and peered inside. Like the house, it was
neat. There was dry-cleaning hanging in the back window, and a half-empty
soda in the cup holder. She walked all around it, looking for something—mud
in the tires, scratches in the paint, but there was nothing unusual. Five
minutes.
She walked briskly through the unkempt grass that bordered the sides of
the house. When she reached the backyard, she stopped dead. Before her were
three huge holes in the ground, longer than they were wide. They looked like
graves, but at a second glance they were too messy, their outlines poorly
defined.
Charlie walked around them in a circle. They were lined up next to one
another, and they were shallow, but the dirt at the bottom was loose. Charlie
grabbed a stick off the ground and poked it into the middle hole: it went in
almost a foot before it was stopped by denser soil. The dirt dug out of them
was strewn messily all around. Whoever dug the holes had carelessly tossed it
everywhere, not bothering to pile it up.
Two minutes.

Charlie hesitated for another moment, then lowered herself into the middle
hole. Her feet sunk into the loose dirt and she fought to steady herself,
catching her balance. It wasn’t too deep. The walls came up to her waist. She
knelt and put her palm against the wall of the grave—the hole, she reminded
herself. The dirt was loose here, too, and the wall was rough.
Something had been hidden there, under the ground. The air is growing
thin. I am running out of oxygen, and I will die like this, alone, in the dark.
Charlie’s throat seized; she felt as if she couldn’t breathe. She climbed out of
the hole and up onto the grass of Tracy Horton’s backyard. Charlie took a
deep breath, focusing all her attention on pushing away the panic. When she
was free of it, she checked her watch.
Minus one minute. He’s already called them. But something kept her there,
something familiar. The loose dirt. Charlie’s mind raced. Something climbed
out of these.
From a distance, a siren was wailing; it would be here in no time. Charlie
hurried to her car and pulled out of the driveway, taking the first corner
without caring where it would take her. The holes stayed in her mind, the
image like a stain.

Charlie slowed her car. With half the cops in Hurricane converging on the
area, now was not the time to be stopped for speeding. She was grubby with
dirt from the dead woman’s backyard, and had a nagging feeling there was
something she was forgetting about.
John, she realized. She was supposed to meet him—she checked the clock
on the dashboard—almost two hours ago. Her heart sank. He’ll think I stood
him up. No, he’ll think I’m dead, she amended. Given the perilous history of
their relationship, he’d probably think the second was more likely.
When she got to the restaurant where they had planned to meet, a small
Italian place across town, Charlie ran in from the parking lot at full speed. She
skidded to a stop in front of the teenage hostess, who greeted her with a
flustered look.
“Can I help you?” she asked Charlie, taking a step back.
Charlie caught a glimpse of herself in the mirror behind the hostess counter.
There were streaks of dirt on her face and clothes; she hadn’t thought to clean
up first. She quickly wiped her cheeks with her hands before answering the
girl.
“I’m supposed to be meeting someone. A tall guy, brown hair. It’s kind of
…” She gestured vaguely at the top of her head, attempting to indicate the
habitual chaos of John’s hair, but the hostess looked at her blankly. Charlie bit
her lip in frustration. He must have left. Of course he left. You’re two hours
late.
“Charlie?” A voice rang out. John.
“You’re still here?” she cried, too loud for the quiet restaurant, as he
appeared behind the hostess, looking profoundly relieved.

“I figured I might as well eat while I’m here.” He swallowed what was in
his mouth and laughed. “Are you okay? I thought you might … not be
coming.”
“I’m fine. Where are you sitting? Or are you still sitting? Well, I mean,
you’re obviously not sitting. You’re standing. But I mean before you were
standing, where were you sitting?” Charlie ran her fingers into her hair and
clenched her fists against her scalp, trying to reassemble her thoughts. She
mumbled an apology to the room, not sure who it was for.
John glanced around nervously, then gestured toward a table near the
kitchen. There was a mostly empty plate with a half-eaten breadstick resting
on it, a cup of coffee, and a second place setting, untouched.
They sat down and he looked at her appraisingly. Then John leaned across
the table and asked in a low voice, “Charlie, what happened?”
“You wouldn’t believe me if I told you?” she said lightly.
His face remained concerned. “You’re filthy. Did you fall down in the
parking lot?”
“Yes,” Charlie said. “I fell in the parking lot and rolled down a hill and into
a Dumpster, then fell out of the Dumpster and tripped on the way in. Happy?
Stop looking at me like that.”
“Like what?”
“Like you have the right to disapprove of me.” John pulled back in his
chair, his eyes wide. He blinked hard, and Charlie sighed.
“John, I’m sorry. I’ll tell you everything. I just need some time; some time
to collect my thoughts and to clean up.” She laughed, an exhausted, shaken
sound, then buried her face in her hands.
John leaned back and signaled for the waitress to bring the check.
Breathing heavily, Charlie looked around the restaurant. It was almost empty.
The hostess and the only other waitress were talking together near the door,
with no apparent interest in anything their customers were doing. There was a
family of four by the front window, the children just barely out of
toddlerhood. One kept sliding out of his chair and onto the floor every time
his mother turned her attention away. The other, a girl, was happily drawing
on the tablecloth with markers. No one seemed to care what was going on.
But the emptiness made Charlie feel exposed.
“I’m going to go clean up,” she said. “Bathroom?” John pointed.
Charlie got up and left the table just as the waitress arrived to deliver his
ticket. There was a pay phone in the hallway, and Charlie stopped at it,
wavering. She craned her neck to see if John was watching, but from where
she stood, she could only see a tiny corner of their table. Quickly, she called
Clay Burke’s office.
To her surprise, he answered. “You saw her backyard,” he said. It wasn’t a
question.

“Can you give me the other addresses?” Charlie asked. “There could be a
pattern—something.”
“There sure could,” he said drily. “That’s why I raced back to the station
instead of sticking around to measure the holes. You have a pen?”
“Hang on.” The hostess was briefly absent from her station, and Charlie
dropped the phone, letting it swing on its metal cord as she hurried to the
podium and snatched a pen and a take-out menu. She rushed back. “Clay? Go
ahead.” He recited names and addresses, and she scribbled them dutifully in
the margins of the menu. “Thanks,” she said when he was done, and hung up
without waiting for him to respond. She folded the menu and slipped it into
her back pocket.
In the bathroom, Charlie washed off as much of the dirt as she could. She
couldn’t clean her clothing, but at least her face was scrubbed, and her hair
was rearranged a little more neatly.
As she moved to exit the bathroom, an image flashed unbidden through her
thoughts. It was the face of the dead woman.
She could be your twin, she heard Clay say, in his low, authoritative voice.
Charlie shook her head. It’s a coincidence. He’s right. How many brownhaired, college-aged women are there around here? The first victim was a
man. It doesn’t mean anything. She grabbed the doorknob to leave, but froze.
It was just like in the library. Charlie released the knob and it spun slowly
back into position, releasing a horrible creak as it moved.
The costumes had been disturbed, and the creaking noise was so faint and
careful she scarcely even heard it. Charlie looked up from her game: there
was a figure in the door.
Charlie glanced wildly around the room, pulling herself back to the present.
With a swell of panic, Charlie pulled on the bathroom door, but it had
somehow sealed shut. She mouthed words, but no sound came out:
I know you’re there. I’m trying to get to you.
“I have to get inside!” she screamed. The door burst open, and Charlie fell
into John’s arms.
“Charlie!”
She collapsed to her knees. Charlie looked up to see the scattered handful
of customers all staring at her. John glanced into the bathroom behind her,
then quickly turned his attention back to Charlie, helping her to her feet.
“I’m okay. I’m fine.” She shook loose of his hands. “I’m fine. The door
was stuck. I felt hot.” Charlie fanned at her face, trying to make a sensible
story of it. “Come on, let’s get to the car.” He tried to take her arm again but
she shook free. “I’m fine!” She dug her keys out of her pocket and walked
straight for the door, not waiting for him. An old woman was openly staring at
Charlie, her fork suspended in the air. Charlie returned her stare. “Food
poisoning,” Charlie said plainly. The woman’s face went pale, and Charlie

walked out the door.
When they got out to her car, John sat down in the passenger’s seat and
looked at Charlie expectantly. “You’re sure you’re okay?”
“It’s been a rough day, that’s all. I’m sorry.”
“What happened?”
Tell him what happened, Charlie thought.
“I want to go to my dad’s—my old house,” she said instead, surprising
herself. Be honest, her inner voice said harshly. You know what kind of
creature is doing this, and you know who built it. Stay focused.
“Right,” he said, his voice softening. “You haven’t seen it since the storm.”
She nodded. He thinks I want to see the damage. She’d forgotten about the
storm until now, but the sudden kindness in John’s voice made her nervous. Is
there anything left? She imagined the house razed to the ground and felt a
sudden wrongness, like a part of her had been ripped away. She’d never
thought of the house as anything but a house, but now, as she drove toward
what was left of it, she felt a painful knot in her stomach. It was where all her
clearest memories of her father were kept: his rough hands building her toys,
showing her his new creations in his workshop, and holding her close when
she was afraid. They’d lived there together, just the two of them, and it was
the place where he had finally died. Charlie felt as if the joy, the sorrow, the
love, and the anguish of their two lifetimes had poured off into the very bones
of the old house. The idea of it being wrecked by a storm was an utter
violation.
She shook her head and gripped the wheel tighter, suddenly aware of how
angry she was. Her love of the house, even of her father, could never be
simple. They had both betrayed her. But now there was a new monster out
there. She clenched her jaw, trying to fight the tears that welled up in her
eyes. Dad, what did you do?
As soon as they were out of the town center, Charlie sped up. Clay would
be tied up dealing with the newest victim for a while, but eventually he would
think to come to her father’s house as well. She could only hope that she’d
connected the dots first. You’re on the same side. Charlie put a hand to her
head and rubbed her temple. The impulse to guard her father’s reputation
from what was coming was visceral, but it was also nonsensical.
Less than a mile from the house they passed a construction site. It was set
back too far from the road for Charlie to see what it was, though it looked
abandoned at the moment.
“I did a little work over there when I first got here,” John said. “Some huge
demolition project.” He laughed. “You have some weird stuff out here; you
wouldn’t know by looking at it.” He studied the countryside for a moment.
“Isn’t that the truth,” Charlie said, not sure if there was something else she
was supposed to say. She was still trying to calm herself. Finally, they came to

her driveway. She pulled in with her eyes on the gravel, the house only a dark
smudge in her peripheral vision. The last time Charlie had been here she’d
run in and out without pausing to look at anything. All she’d wanted was
Theodore, and she had grabbed him and gone. Now she regretted her haste,
wishing for some final mental image. You’re not here to say good-bye. She
turned the car off, steeled herself, and looked up.
The house was surrounded by trees, and at least three of them had fallen,
striking the roof directly. One had landed squarely on the front corner,
crushing the walls beneath its weight. Charlie could see through the broken
beams and crumbled drywall, into the living room. Inside there was only
debris.
The front door was intact, though the steps to it were splintered and split.
They looked as if they’d give way as soon as they bore weight. Charlie got
out of the car and headed toward them.
“What are you doing?” John’s voice was alarmed. Charlie ignored him. She
heard his door slam, and he caught her arm, wrenching her back.
“What?” she snapped.
“Charlie, look at this place. That house is going to fall over any day now.”
“It’s not going to fall,” she said flatly, but she did gaze up again. The house
seemed to be listing to the side, though it must have been an illusion; surely
the foundation itself couldn’t have sunk. “I’ll be out before I get killed, I
promise,” she said more gently, and he nodded.
“Go slow,” he said.
They carefully climbed the steps to the porch, staying close to the sides, but
the wood was sturdier than it looked. They could have taken three steps to the
right and walked through the open wall, but Charlie took out her key and
unlocked the door as John waited patiently, letting her go through the
unnecessary ritual.
Inside, she paused at the foot of the stairs to the second floor. The holes in
the ceiling were beaming down shafts of thin sunlight, dimming as the sun
began to wane. It made the place feel almost like some sort of shrine. Charlie
tore her eyes away from the holes and started upstairs to her bedroom.
As with the outdoor steps, she kept to the side, holding on to the bannister.
The water damage was visible everywhere. There were dark stains and soft
spots in the wood. Charlie reached out to touch a place where the paint had
bubbled out from the wall, leaving a pocket of air.
Suddenly a cracking sound came from behind her and she spun around.
John grabbed the bannister, struggling to hold on as the stair gave way under
him. Charlie reached out, but John braced himself unsteadily. He hissed and
gritted his teeth.
“My foot’s stuck,” he said, nodding down. Charlie saw that his foot had
gone clear through the wood, and now the jagged edges dug into his ankle.

“Okay, hold on,” Charlie said. She crouched down until she could reach
him on the step below her, though the awkward angle made it hard to
maintain her balance. The wood was only rotting in some places, while in
others it was still intact. She grabbed the smaller pieces and pulled them
cautiously back from John’s foot, her hands growing raw with the rough and
splintered surface.
“I think I’ve got it,” John said finally, flexing his ankle.
She looked up and grinned. “And you thought I was going to get myself
killed.”
John gave her a weak smile. “How about we both make it out alive?”
“Right.”
They made their way up the rest of the stairs much more slowly, each of
them testing their weight before they took the next step. “Careful,” John
warned as Charlie reached the top.
“We won’t be here long,” Charlie said. She was much more aware of the
danger now. The house’s instability grew more obvious with each step they
took; the very foundation seemed to wobble from side to side as they moved.
Her old bedroom was on the undamaged side of the house—or the side not
struck by trees, at least. Charlie stopped in the doorway, and John came up
behind her. The floor was strewn with glass. One window had been broken by
something, and the shattered glass had blown into the room.
She took a deep breath, and it was then that she saw Stanley. The
animatronic unicorn had once run on a track around her bedroom. Now he
was lying on his side. Charlie went to him and sat down, pulling his head into
her lap and patting his rusty cheek. He looked as if he’d been torn violently
from his track. His legs were twisted, his hooves missing chunks. When she
looked around the room she saw the missing pieces, still attached to the
grooves in the floor.
“Stanley has seen better days.” John smiled ruefully.
“Yeah,” Charlie said absently, as she set the toy’s head back on the floor.
“John, can you turn that wheel?” She pointed to a crank soldered together at
the foot of her bed. He complied, crossing the floor agonizingly slowly.
Charlie bit back her impatience. He turned the crank and she waited for the
littlest closet door to open, but nothing happened. John looked at Charlie
expectantly.
She stood and went to the wall where the three closets stood, closed and
apparently untouched by the weather. Even the paint was bright and
immaculate. Charlie hesitated, feeling as if she might be disturbing something
that no longer belonged to her, then forced the smallest door open.
Ella was there, the doll who had been the same size as Charlie when she
was much younger. She, like Stanley, had once run around on a track, and she
seemed to still be attached to it. She was entirely undamaged. Her dress was

clean, and the tray she held in front of her was firm in her motionless hands.
Her wide eyes had been gazing into the darkness since the last time Charlie
saw her.
“Hi, Ella,” Charlie said softly. “I don’t suppose you can tell me what I’m
looking for?” She scanned over the doll quickly and brushed at her dress.
“You just want to stay in here from now on?” Charlie studied the tiny frame
of the door. “I don’t blame you.” She closed the closet door again without
saying good-bye.
“So,” she said, turning back to John. He seemed lost in thought, staring at
something in his hand.
“What is that?” Charlie asked.
“A photo of you, when you were no bigger than her.” John smiled and
gestured toward Ella’s door, then handed the picture to Charlie.
It looked like a school photo. A short, chubby girl gave a toothy grin for the
camera—minus one tooth. Charlie smiled back at her. “I don’t remember
this.”
“That doll is a little creepy, standing in the closet,” John said. “I’m a bit on
edge, I won’t lie.”
“Waiting for a tea party,” Charlie said acerbically. “How sinister.” She
started to leave the room, but as her hand touched the doorframe, she paused.
Doors. She stepped back through into her bedroom, and looked for a long
moment at each of the rectangular closet doors. “John,” she whispered.
“What?” John looked up, trying to follow Charlie’s gaze.
“Doors,” Charlie whispered. She took several long steps back to study the
whole wall at once. The scribbles all over her notebooks had been shaped like
dozens—hundreds—of rectangles. She drew them without thinking, as if they
were pushing up through her mind, trying to break out of her subconscious.
Now they had. “They’re doors,” she repeated.
“Yes. Yes, I see.” John tilted his head curiously. “Are you okay?”
“Yes, I’m fine. I mean, I’m not sure.” She ran her eyes over the wall of
closets again. Doors. But not these doors.
“Come on, let’s go look at the workshop,” John said. “Maybe we can find
something else there.”
“Right.” She gave a pained smile. She looked back once more at the three
closets that sat in silence.
John nodded, and they went cautiously back down the stairs, testing each
step before they took it. Outside, they stopped by the car. The workshop was
invisible from the driveway, hidden behind the house. The backyard had once
been surrounded by trees, a small wood that acted as a fence.
“Don’t go into the woods, Charlie,” she said, then smiled at John. “That’s
what he always told me, like something out of a fairy tale.” They walked a bit
farther, twigs snapping under their feet. “But the woods were only ten feet

deep,” she said, still peering into the trees as though something might leap
out. As a child these trees had seemed impenetrable, a forest she might be lost
in forever, if she dared to wander in. She started toward what remained of
them, then stopped dead when she saw where some of the fallen trees had
landed.
Her father’s workshop had been crushed. A massive trunk had hit the
workshop’s roof dead center, and others had come with it on all sides. The
wall closest to the house was still standing, but it was bowed beneath the
sagging roof.
It had been a garage when they moved in, and then it had become her
father’s world: a place of light and shadow that smelled of hot metal and burnt
plastic. Charlie peered down at the rotting wood and broken glass with careful
attention, looking for something she might otherwise miss.
“We’re definitely not going in there,” John said.
But Charlie was already lifting a piece of sheet metal that had once
belonged to the roof. She threw it violently to the side, and it hit the ground
with a resounding clang. John startled and kept his distance as Charlie
continued to throw things. “What are you—what are we looking for?”
Charlie wrestled a toy from under the debris and threw it carelessly to the
ground behind her, continuing to lift sheets of metal and toss them aside.
“Charlie,” John whispered, picking up the delicate toy and cradling it. “He
must have made this for you.”
Charlie ignored him. “There’s got to be something else in here.” She fought
her way deeper into the workshop, toppling a wooden beam out of her way.
Her hand slipped on the wood, and she realized it was wet; her arm was
bleeding. She wiped her hand on her jeans. From the corner of her eye, she
saw John set the toy carefully on the ground and follow her in.
Amazingly, there were still shelves and tables standing upright, with tools
and shreds of fabric where her father had last set them. Charlie glanced at
them for a passing moment, then swept her arm across the table nearest her,
knocking everything to the ground. She didn’t pause to see what had fallen
before moving to the shelves. She began picking things off the nearest shelf
one item at a time, inspecting them and throwing them to the ground. When
the shelf was empty, she grabbed the board itself with both hands, wrenching
at it violently, trying to pull it from the wall. When it didn’t come loose, she
began pounding at it with her fists.
“Stop!” John ran to her and grabbed her hands, pinning them to her sides.
“There has to be something here!” she screamed. “I’m supposed to be here,
but I don’t know what it is that I’m supposed to find.”
“What are you talking about? There’s a lot left. Look at this stuff!” He held
the toy up to her again.
“This isn’t about the storm, John. It’s not about happy memories, or

closure, or whatever you think I need. This is about monsters. They’re out
there, and they’re killing people. And you and I both know that there is only
one place they could have come from: here.”
“You don’t know that,” John began. Charlie looked at him with a stony
rage, stopping him short.
“I’m surrounded by monsters, and murder, and death, and spirits.” At the
last word her fury ebbed, and she turned away from John, surveying the
workshop. She wasn’t sure now what damage the storm had done, and what
had been her. “All I can think about is Sammy. I feel him. Right now, I can
feel him in this place, but he’s—cut off. It doesn’t even make sense. He died
before my father and I moved here. But I know I’m here for a reason. There’s
something that I’m supposed to find. It’s all connected, but I don’t know how.
Maybe something to do with the doors … I don’t know.”
“Hey, okay. We’ll find it together.” John reached out for her. Charlie’s
strength gave way and she let him pull her close, pressing her face into his
shirt. “I know it’s hard to see everything torn apart like this,” he said.
Charlie’s anger drained away, fading into exhaustion. She rested her head on
John’s shoulder, wishing she could stay like this just a little longer.
“Charlie,” John said with alarm, and Charlie came back to attention. He
was looking over her shoulder, in the direction of the house.
The entire back face of the house had been torn open, as if someone had
taken a massive hammer to it; inside was only dark.
“That’s right under your room, isn’t it? We could have fallen through the
floor,” John said.
“That should be the living room,” Charlie said, wiping her sleeve across
her face.
“Yeah, but it’s not.” John looked at her expectantly.
“That’s not even a part of the house,” she said. A sudden spark of hope
revived inside her. Something was out of place. That meant there was
something to find.
Charlie approached the chasm, and John didn’t try to stop her as she
climbed up several large slabs of broken concrete. John stayed a step behind
her, close enough to catch her if she slipped. Charlie turned to him before
entering. “Thank you,” she said. John nodded.
“I’ve never seen this room before,” Charlie whispered as she crept into the
hollow space. The walls were made of dark concrete, and the room was small
and windowless, a box jammed into the house and sealed away between the
rooms. There were no decorations, and nothing to indicate what was stored
here. Just a dirt floor and three large holes, deep and oblong like graves.
“Those don’t look like storm damage,” John said.
“They’re not.” Charlie went up to the edge of the nearest hole, looking
down.

“Were you … expecting to find these?”
These holes were deeper than the ones she’d found at Tracy Horton’s
house. Perhaps it was the shadowy room, but these looked like real graves.
They were a foot or so deeper than the ones she’d found before and partially
filled with loose dirt.
John was standing patiently behind her, waiting for her answer.
“I’ve seen them before,” she admitted. “Behind the house of a dead
woman.”
“What are you talking about?”
Charlie sighed. “There was another body. I found her today, in a field. I
called Clay, and then I went to her house while he waited for the rest of the
cops to show up. There were holes like this in her backyard.”
“That’s what you wouldn’t tell me? Another body?” John sounded hurt, but
his wounded expression lasted only seconds before it cleared. He started
scanning the room again, his eyes intent on the walls and floor.
That, and the fact that she looked like me, Charlie thought.
“So what do you think the holes are?” he asked finally.
Charlie barely heard him. Her gaze had fixed on the blank concrete wall on
the far side of the room. It was empty, whitewashed then left to turn gray with
dust and mildew. But something drew her to it. Leaving John alone by the
open graves, Charlie walked slowly to it, drawn there by a sense of sudden
recognition. It was like she’d just remembered a word that had been on the tip
of her tongue for days.
She hesitated, holding her hands out flat, less than an inch from the wall,
uncertain what was holding her back. She steeled herself and placed her
palms against the wall. It was cold. She felt a slight shock of surprise, as
though she’d expected to feel warmth from the other side. John was speaking,
but to her it was only murmurs in the distance. She turned her head and
delicately placed her ear against the surface, closing her eyes. Movement?
“Hey!” John’s voice broke her focus, waking her as if from a trance. “Over
here!”
She turned. John was bent over the mound of dirt next to the farthest grave.
Charlie started toward him, but he put up a hand to stop her.
“No, come around the other way.”
She carefully made her way around the perimeter of the little room until
she was beside him. At first she couldn’t tell what he was trying to show her.
Something was almost visible, veiled in a thin layer of dirt, so that it blended
into the ground as if deliberately camouflaged.
But eventually she saw it—rusted metal, and the glint of a staring, plastic
eye. She glanced at John, who just looked back at her. This was her territory
now. Carefully, Charlie poked the mostly buried head of the thing with the toe
of her sneaker, then yanked her foot back. The thing didn’t move.

“What the heck is this?” John asked, glancing around the room. “And why
is it in here?”
“I’ve never seen this before,” Charlie said. She knelt, curiosity overtaking
her fear, then used her hand to scrape aside some of the dirt, clearing off a
little more of the creature’s face. Behind her, John drew a sharp breath.
Charlie just stared down. The creature had no fur, and its face was smooth. It
had a short muzzle and oval ears sticking out from the sides of the head. It
had the general appearance of an animal’s head, though much larger than the
animatronic animals from Freddy’s. Charlie couldn’t guess what kind of
animal it was supposed to be. Running down the center of its face was a long,
straight split, exposing wires and a line of metal frame. A thick plastic
material was stuck to the face in large patches. Maybe it had been encased in
it at some point.
“Do you recognize it?” John asked quietly.
Charlie shook her head. “No,” she managed to say after a moment.
“Something’s wrong with it.” She brushed back more dirt and found it came
away easily. The thing had only been partially buried beneath the floor; that,
or it had almost escaped. She started digging her hands into the dirt, trying to
pry it out of what remained of its grave.
“You’ve got to be kidding me.” John groaned as he knelt to help, getting
his hands around any part of it he could. In one concentrated effort, they
heaved it upward, managing to pull most of the torso out of the dirt. They let
it drop, then fell back on the ground to study it while they caught their breath.
Like the face, the body was smoother than the animatronics that Charlie
was used to. It had no fur, and no tail or other animal appendages. It was too
large for a human being to wear, probably eight feet tall when standing. Still,
Charlie couldn’t shake the feeling that she recognized this creature. Foxy.
There was something sick about the creature, a weirdness that gripped her
at the most basic, primal level and cried, This is wrong. Charlie closed her
eyes for a moment. Her skin felt strange, like something was crawling all over
it. It’s just an oversized doll. She took a deep, deliberate breath, opened her
eyes, and inched forward to examine the thing.
As her hand touched the creature, a wave of nausea hit her, but it lasted
only a split second. She continued. She turned the head to the side, its joints
resisting. The left side of its skull had been crushed. Charlie could see that the
insides were broken, half the wires torn out. Just behind the eye, on the side
that had been completely buried, a piece of the casing was missing. She could
see a mass of plastic with a tangle of wires running in and out of it.
Something had melted one of the circuit boards. Moving slowly down the
body, Charlie examined its joints: one arm seemed fine, but on the other both
the shoulder and elbow joints had been bent out of shape. Charlie looked up at
John, who was watching her with a worried expression.

“Anything familiar?”
“I don’t recognize it. It’s not something my dad ever showed me,” Charlie
said.
“Maybe we should put it back in the ground and get out of here. This feels
like it was a mistake.”
“But on the inside …” Charlie ignored him. “The hardware, the joints—it’s
older technology. Maybe he made them earlier? I don’t know.”
“How can you tell?”
“I recognize some of this as my dad’s work.” She frowned and pointed at
the creature’s head. “But then a lot of it is foreign to me. Someone else may
have had a hand in it. I’m not sure if my dad made it or not, but I have a
feeling he’s the one who buried it.”
“I can’t imagine it was designed to be onstage. It’s hideous.” John was
noticeably nervous, and now he placed his hand on Charlie’s arm. “Let’s get
out of here. This place gives me the creeps.”
“‘Gives me the creeps,’” Charlie said lightly. “Who says that? I’m going to
try and get it the rest of the way out. I just want to see …” She moved away
from John’s touch, leaning down to dig again by the creature’s buried torso.
“Charlie!” John cried, just as a metal shriek rang out.
The animatronic’s arms lifted, and its chest opened like an iron gate. Its
metal pieces slid out of place to reveal a dark, gaping pit where sharp spikes
and spring locks were just barely visible. It was a trap waiting to be triggered.
Yet, disorientingly, something else about it had transformed at the same time.
Its artificial skin took on a luminescence, and its movements were fluid and
sure. Its casing suddenly appeared to have skin and fur, though they were
blurry, flickering like a trick of the light.
Charlie jumped backward, but it was too late: the thing had her in its grip
and lifted her high into the air. It was pulling her toward it. She beat against
its bent and damaged arm, but the other arm steadily forced her closer to the
chest cavity. John stumbled backward for a moment, bending forward with
one hand over his mouth, as if struck by a wave of nausea.
Charlie struggled to break free, but her strength was no match for the
creature. Out of the corner of her eye she could see John lunging toward the
beast. He grabbed its head, wrenching at it, trying to force it sideways.
Beneath Charlie, the animatronic began to spasm, a stuttering, uncontrolled
movement. The creature’s grip came loose and its arms swung around wildly.
Charlie struggled to get to her feet, but her legs slid in the dirt. The creature
seized her again, and its cold fingers drew her closer.
Charlie braced her shoe against the ground, trying to give herself leverage,
but she was being pulled down by an overwhelming force. Suddenly she was
face-to-face with the beast, her shoulder already inside its chest cavity. The
thing pressed her closer, then suddenly it jerked and released her. She rolled

away and heard the sound of snapping spring locks. The creature convulsed
on the ground in front of her, headless. Charlie looked at John. He was
holding the thing’s head in his hands, his eyes wide with shock. He dropped it
and kicked it across the floor.
“Are you okay?” John scrambled to her. Charlie nodded, staring at the
broken animatronic head. It still seemed alive. Its fur bristled and skin moved,
as if there were muscle and sinew underneath.
“What the heck just happened?”
John raised both hands in surrender.
Charlie carefully picked up the massive head and flipped it upside down,
peering into it through the base where John had torn it off the neck.
“Ugh.” John bent over, his hands on his knees. His face was pale. He stifled
a retching sound.
Charlie started toward him, surprised. “What’s wrong with you? You’ve
seen worse than this.”
“No, it’s not that. I don’t know what it is.” He straightened, then stumbled
toward the wall, bracing himself. “It’s like there’s some horrible smell in the
air, but without the smell.”
Charlie held her finger to her ear, listening. There was a tone in the air, so
high-pitched and quiet it was almost imperceptible. “I think something is still
… on,” she said. She set the giant head on the ground. John had a hand to his
ear, listening, but when she looked at him he shook his head.
“I can’t hear anything.”
Charlie returned to the body of the creature and peered into its gaping chest
cavity. “Are you okay?” she asked halfheartedly, not taking her eyes off the
robot.
“Yeah, I feel better back here.” He heaved and she turned. John’s face was
strained, and his arm was tight across his stomach. “I think it’s passing,” he
said, then doubled over, barely getting out the last syllable.
“This thing.” Charlie clenched her teeth and jerked her weight back and
forth, trying to wrestle something loose from inside the chest cavity.
“Charlie get away from it!” John took a step toward her, then swayed back,
as if he were tethered to the wall. “There is something really wrong with that
thing.”
“Now this I’ve seen before,” Charlie said as she pulled the object out at
last. It was a flat disc, about the size of a half-dollar coin. She held it up to her
ear. “Wow, that’s really high-pitched. I can barely hear it. The sound is why
you feel sick.”
Charlie wedged her fingernail into a small groove on the side of the object
and flipped a thin switch. John took several deep breaths, then stood upright
again slowly, testing himself. He looked at Charlie. “It stopped,” she said.
“Charlie,” John whispered, nodding toward the beast on the ground.

Charlie looked, and a shock went through her. The illusion of fur and flesh
was gone. It was nothing more than a broken robot with unfinished features.
John picked up the head once again, turning it to face them. “That thing, it
did something,” John said, nodding toward the device in Charlie’s hands.
“Turn it back on.” He lifted the creature’s head a bit higher and stared into its
lifeless round eyes.
Are you sure that’s a good idea? she was about to say, but curiosity got the
better of her. John could handle a little more nausea. She slipped her nail back
into the groove and flipped the tiny switch. Before their eyes, the fractured
and worn face became fluid and smooth, warping into something lifelike.
John dropped the head and jumped backward.
“It’s alive!”
“No, it’s not,” Charlie whispered, flipping the switch off again. She cradled
the strange device in her hands, gazing down at it, mesmerized. “I want to
know more about this. We have to get back to the dorm.” She got to her feet.
“I’ve seen something like this. When I came back here for Theodore, I
grabbed a bunch of stuff and put it in a box to study later. I know I saw
something like this.”
For a long moment, John said nothing. Charlie felt a surge of shame. He
was looking at her the way Jessica had, the way he had when he first saw her
experiment. The little disc in Charlie’s palm felt suddenly like the most vital
thing in the world. She closed her hand on it.
“Okay, then,” John said plainly. “Let’s go.” His tone was calm, and it
caught Charlie off guard. John was being deliberately agreeable. She wasn’t
sure exactly why, but it was reassuring nonetheless.
“Okay.” Charlie smiled.

When they got back to the college, Charlie headed for the dorm.
“Hey, slow down!” John struggled to catch up.
“You have that disc?”
“Of course.” He patted his pocket.
“I know I’ve seen something like this before,” she said. “I’ll show you.”
She glanced at John as she let him into the room she shared with Jessica, but
his face remained impassive. He’d already seen the mess. But John didn’t
look in the direction of Charlie’s desk and the covered faces.
“You can clear off the chair,” Charlie said as she shoved a stack of books
out of the way. She crawled under the bed and emerged a moment later with a
large cardboard box. John was standing beside the chair, looking perplexed. “I
said you can clear it off,” she said.
He laughed. “Clear it off to where?”
“Right.” The chair had a stack of books on the seat, and a stack of T-shirts
draped over the back. Charlie grabbed the shirts and threw them onto the bed.
She set the box on the bed and settled herself cross-legged behind it, so that
John would be able to look through it, too.
“So what is all of this?” He leaned slowly over the box as Charlie
rummaged through it, pulling parts out one by one and setting them in a
straight line on the bed.
“Stuff from my dad’s house: electronics, mechanical parts. Things from the
animatronics, from his work.” She glanced at him nervously. “I know I said
that I just went back for Theodore, and I did. But I may have grabbed a few
things on the way out. I wanted to learn, and these classes—John, you know
some of the tech my father was working with was ancient. It’s practically

ridiculous now. But he was making it up as he went along; he thought of stuff
that’s still unique, that no one else has thought of yet. I wanted all of it. I
wanted to understand it. So, I went back to get what I could.”
“You stripped the house for parts, I get it.” John laughed as he picked up
Theodore’s severed paw and considered it for a moment. “Even your favorite
toy? Don’t you think that’s a little … heartless?”
“Is it?” Charlie picked up a piece from the box, a metal joint, and weighed
it in her hands. “I took Theodore apart because I wanted to understand him,
John. Isn’t that the most loving thing there is?”
“Maybe I should reconsider this whole dating thing,” John said, wide-eyed.
“He was important to me because my father made him for me, not because
he was stitched up to look like a rabbit.” She discarded the joint, setting it
next to her on the bed. She turned her attention to the box, picking up pieces
one by one and setting them in a row. She was sure she’d recognize what she
needed when she saw it.
Charlie looked at circuitry and wires, metal joints and plastic casings,
examining each piece carefully. Something would cry out to her, just like the
animatronic beast had done, with that raw sense of wrongness. But after a
while her neck grew sore from bending over the box. Her eyes were
beginning to glaze over. She discarded the piece of metal tubing in her hand,
tossing it onto the growing pile on her bed. At the clanking sound, John
looked up.
“Where do you even sleep?” he asked, gesturing not only to the growing
pile of electronic and mechanical parts, but to the clothing and books, and the
smaller piles of electronic and mechanical parts.
Charlie shrugged. “There’s always room for me,” she said mildly. “Even if
just barely.”
“Yeah, but what about when you’re married?” John’s face flushed before
he’d even finished the sentence. Charlie looked up at him, one eyebrow
hinged slightly higher than the other. “Someday,” John said hastily. “To
someone. Else.” His face grew grimmer. Charlie felt her eyebrow lift higher
of its own volition. “So, what are we looking for again?” John furrowed his
brow and scooted his chair closer to the bed, peering into the box.
“This.” Spotting a glimmer in the pile, Charlie took hold of a small disc
and carefully placed it in the palm of her hand. She held it out so John could
see. It looked just like the metallic disc they’d found in the body of the
animatronic, but one side of it had been damaged, revealing a curious metal
framework inside. Several wires extended, connecting to a black keypad not
much larger than the disc itself.
“Funny.” Charlie chuckled to herself.
“What?”
“The last time I held this, I was more interested in the keypad.” She smiled.

“This part is a common diagnostic tool. Someone must have been testing it.”
“Or trying to find out what it was,” John added. “That thing doesn’t look
like anything else in the box; just like that monster we found doesn’t look like
anything your dad made. I mean, it kind of looked like Foxy, but not the one
your dad made. This was some sort of twisted version of Foxy.”
She pulled a heavy metal joint from the box. “This doesn’t belong here,
either.”
“What’s wrong with it?”
“It’s meant to be an elbow, but look.” She bent the joint all the way over,
then all the way back the other way, then looked at John expectantly.
He looked blank. “So?”
“My father wouldn’t have used this. He always put stops so that the joints
couldn’t do things humans can’t do.”
“Maybe it’s not finished?”
“It’s finished. It’s not just that, though, it’s … it’s the way the metal is cut,
the way it’s put together. It’s like—you write things, right? So, you read other
people’s work?” He nodded. “If I ripped up some books and gave you a big
pile of pages, and asked you to pick out the ones by your favorite author,
could you do that, just based on the style?”
“Yeah, of course. I mean, I might be wrong about a few, but yeah.”
“Well, it’s the same thing here.” She held the heavy piece up again to make
her point. “My dad didn’t write this.”
“Okay, but what does it mean?” John asked. He unplugged the broken disc
from the diagnostic keypad and took the second disc from the monster out of
his pocket. He fiddled with it briefly, then managed to unhinge one side of it.
Frowning with concentration, he attached the wires from the keypad to the
new disc. When he was finished, he hesitated. “I don’t want to flip any of the
switches,” he said. “I don’t think my stomach can take it.”
“Yeah, don’t touch anything yet. After what happened at the house, we
shouldn’t assume that we know what any of this does.” Charlie set the box on
the floor and started shuffling through the parts again, looking at the patterns,
trying to see something in them. “There has to be something else in here that
I’m missing.”
“Charlie,” John said. “Sorry to interrupt your conversation with yourself,
but look.” He passed her the broken disc he’d just unhooked. “Look on the
back.”
The back had once been smooth, but it was scratched a lot since it was first
made. Charlie stared at it for a minute, then finally saw it: there was writing
along one edge. She had to bring the piece of plastic close to her face to make
the letters out. They were tiny, and written in an old-fashioned, flowing script.
They read: Afton Robotics, LLC. Charlie dropped the disc immediately.
“Afton? William Afton? That’s my father’s old partner. That’s—”

“That’s Dave’s real name,” John finished. Charlie sat silently for a moment,
feeling as if something very large and unwieldy had been shoved into her
head.
“I thought he was just a business partner for Freddy’s,” she said slowly.
“I guess he did a bit more than that.”
“He’s dead, though. It’s not like we can ask him questions. We have to
figure out what’s happening now.” She grabbed the cardboard box and swept
the extraneous pieces—the pieces that had been her father’s—into it, then
shoved it back under the bed. John ducked out of her way as she maneuvered
around the small space.
“And how do you think we should do that?” he asked. “What is happening
now? There have been two bodies so far, both killed by something like what
we just found.”
“Three bodies,” Charlie said, flushing slightly. John covered his face with
his hands for a moment and took a deep breath.
“Okay, three. Are you sure it’s not four?”
“I didn’t see the third one. Clay just told me about it, after she was found. It
had been out for a few days—she was the first one, I think.”
“So why them? Are these robots just going on a killing spree? Why would
they do that? Charlie, is there anything else about this that you’re not telling
me?” Charlie bit her lip, hesitant. “I’m serious. I’m in this with you, but if I
don’t know what’s happening, I can’t help you.”
Charlie nodded. “I don’t know if it means anything. Clay said it was just a
coincidence. But the woman I found in the field—John, she looked like me.”
His expression went dark. “What do you mean, looked like you?”
“Not exactly like me. Brown hair, same size, sort of. I don’t know, if you
described me to someone and asked them to pick me out of a crowd, they
might come back with her. There was just this awful moment when I looked
down at her, and it was like looking at me.”
“Clay said it didn’t mean anything?”
“He said it’s a college town; there are a lot of brown-haired girls around.
One of the other two victims was a man, so …”
“Probably a coincidence then,” John offered.
“Yeah,” Charlie said. “I guess it was just … unsettling.”
“There must be something else that’s linking them together. Another
person, a job, a location maybe.” John looked toward the window. Charlie
caught him smiling, and John’s expression sobered, looking suddenly selfconscious.
“You’re enjoying this,” she said.
“No.” He shrugged. “I wouldn’t put it that way. I don’t want any more
bodies. But—it’s a mystery, and it’s an excuse to spend some time with you.”
He smiled, but quickly made his face serious again. “So what about the

bodies? Where were they found?”
“Well.” Charlie brushed the hair off her face, slightly distracted. “They
were all found in fields, miles apart. The first one—the one they just found—
was over on the far side of Hurricane, and the girl I found today was left by
the side of the road between Hurricane and here.”
“Where on the road? How far from here?”
“About halfway …” Suddenly her eyes widened. “Forget the fields. Or
don’t forget them, but they’re not the point, or at least not the whole point.
The holes were behind the woman’s house. They take them from their homes.
That’s where they’re starting; it’s where we should start, too.” She headed for
the door, and John followed.
“Wait, what? Where are we going?”
“My car. I want to look at a map.”
When they got to the car, Charlie pulled a stack of papers out of the glove
compartment and rifled through them, then pulled out a map and handed it to
John.
“Give me a pen.” She held out her hand, and John pulled two from his front
pocket, handing her one. Charlie spread the map out on the hood of the car
and they bent over it.
“The woman’s house was here,” she said, circling the spot. “Clay gave me
the addresses of the others.” She pulled the now slightly grubby menu from
her pocket and handed it to John. “You look for that one,” she said quietly.
Even though they both knew the area, tracing the streets for the victim’s
houses took longer than Charlie had expected.
“Found it,” John announced.
“1158 Oak Street is right … there.” She circled the point and stepped back.
“What’s that?” John said, pointing to something scribbled in the margin.
Charlie picked up the corner of the map and her heart skipped. It was another
drawing of a rectangle. She didn’t remember making it. It’s a door. But what
door? She stared down at it. It had no knobs or latches, nothing to indicate
how she would get inside. Or where it was. What good is it to know what I’m
looking for, if I don’t know why, or how to find it?
“Just a doodle,” she said sternly, to redirect his attention. “Come on,
concentrate.”
“Yeah,” John said. At least the pattern was instantly clear; the houses made
a crooked line from Hurricane toward St. George, truncated halfway between.
“They’re all about the same distance apart,” Charlie said, a swell of dread
rising in her chest. John was nodding as if he understood. “What does it
mean?” she asked urgently.
“They’re moving in a specific direction, and traveling roughly the same
distance between.” He paused. “Killing.”
“Who’s killing who?” A voice rang out behind them.

Charlie gasped and whirled around, her heart pounding. Jessica was behind
her, holding a stack of books to her chest. Her eyes were wide and a grin of
excitement broke across her face.
“We were just talking about the movie we saw last night,” John said with a
casual smile.
“Oh yeah, okay.” Jessica gave him a quick look of faux seriousness and
glanced at Charlie. “So, Charlie, what’s the map for?” she asked, gesturing at
it elaborately. “Oh, does it have to do with Freddy’s?” she said with
excitement in her voice. John looked at Charlie suspiciously.
“Did she tell you?” Jessica looked to John, and John looked back at
Charlie, eager to hear the rest.
“Jessica, now probably isn’t the best time,” Charlie said feebly.
“We went to Freddy’s yesterday,” Jessica said in a hushed tone, although no
one else was around.
“Oh, really? Funny, Charlie didn’t mention that. Was that before or after all
that shopping?” John folded his arms.
“I was going to tell you,” Charlie murmured.
“Charlie, sometimes I think you’re just trying to get yourself killed.” John
put his hand over his face.
“So what’s the map for?” Jessica repeated. “What are we looking for?”
“Monsters,” Charlie said. “New … animatronics. They’re murdering
people, seemingly at random,” she continued, not fully convinced of what
she’d just said.
Jessica’s face grew grave, but her eyes still held a twinkle of eagerness as
she walked around the side of the car to dump her books on the backseat.
“How? Where did they come from? Freddy’s?”
“No, not Freddy’s. They came from my dad’s house, we think. But they
weren’t his, Jessica. He didn’t build them. We think it was Dave … Afton …
whatever his name is.” The words had come tumbling out all at once,
nonsensical, and John stepped in to translate.
“She means that—”
“No, I get it,” Jessica cut in. “You don’t have to talk to me like I’m
uninitiated. I was at Freddy’s last year, too, remember? I’ve seen some crazy
things. So, what are we going to do?” She looked at Charlie, her game face
on. She looked far more together than Charlie felt.
“We don’t know what any of it means for sure,” John said. “We’re still
figuring it out.”
“Why didn’t you tell me?” Jessica asked. Charlie looked up at her
hesitantly.
“I just didn’t want it to be like last time,” she said. “There’s no need to put
everyone at risk.”
“Yeah, just me.” John smirked.

“I get that,” Jessica said. “But after what happened last time … I mean,
we’re in this together.”
John leaned back against the car, glancing around for anyone who might be
listening.
“So …” Jessica stepped around her to look at the map. “What are we
doing?”
Charlie leaned in and squinted at the distance key on the map. “There’s
about three miles between each location.” She studied the map again for a
moment, then drew another circle. “That’s my house—my dad’s house.” She
looked up at John. “Whatever is out there killing people came from there.
They must have …” Her voice trailed off.
“When the storm broke the wall,” John muttered.
“What?” Jessica asked.
“A section of the house was sealed until the storm broke through.”
With firm strokes, Charlie drew a straight line from her father’s house,
through the three houses of the victims, and continued the line across the map.
“That can’t be right,” Jessica said when she saw where the line finally ended.
John peered over Charlie’s shoulder.
“Isn’t that your college?” he asked.
“Yeah, it’s our dorm.” The excitement had left Jessica’s voice. “That
doesn’t make any sense.”
Charlie couldn’t take her eyes off the paper. It felt a little like she had
drawn the path to her own death. “It wasn’t a coincidence,” she said.
“What are you talking about?”
“Don’t you get it?” She let out a faint laugh, unable to stop herself. “It’s
me. They’re coming for me. They’re looking for me!”
“What? Who are they?” Jessica looked to John.
“There were three empty … graves at her dad’s house. So, there must be
three of them out there somewhere.”
“They move at night,” Charlie said. “I mean they can’t walk around in the
daylight. So they find a place to bury themselves until nightfall.”
“Even if you’re right, and they’re coming for you,” John said, bending
down and trying to catch her eye, “now we know they’re coming. And going
by this, we can at least guess where they might go next.”
“So, what are you saying? What does that matter?” Charlie heard her own
voice break.
“It matters because those things are out there, right now, buried in
someone’s yard. And when the sun goes down they’re going to kill again, in
the most horrible way possible.” Charlie said nothing, her head bowed.
“Look.” John straightened out the map and pushed it into Charlie’s lap, so she
couldn’t help but see it. “Somewhere in here.” He pointed to the next circled
area on the line. “We can stop them if we can find them first,” John said with

urgency.
“Okay.” Charlie took a breath. “We don’t have much time, though.”
John grabbed the map, and they all got into the car.
“Just tell me where to go,” Charlie said grimly.
John peered down at the map. “So this is where we need to be?” he
confirmed, pointing to the fifth circle, and Charlie nodded. He turned the map
and squinted. “Turn left out of the parking lot, then take the next right. I know
this place. I’ve driven past it. It’s an apartment complex. It’s pretty run-down
from what I remember.”
Jessica leaned forward, poking her head between the front seats. “Those
circles don’t look too precise; it could be anywhere in the area.”
“Yeah, but I’m guessing it’s going to be the place with the three fresh
graves in the backyard,” John said.
Charlie glanced at each of them for a second before fixing her eyes back on
the road. There was safety in numbers. Last year when they were trapped at
Freddy’s together, Jessica was the one who had gotten them inside the
restaurant in the first place. She was brave, even when she didn’t want to be,
and that meant more than whatever notion of romance John was entertaining.
“Charlie, turn right!” John exclaimed. She yanked the wheel, barely
making the turn. Focus. Imminent murder first, everything else later.
Before them lay sprawling fields, lots marked out and prepared for
construction and future development but never finished. Some had never even
begun. Slabs of concrete were stacked here and there, almost completely
obscured by overgrowth. A few lots away, steel beams had been erected to
make a foundation that was never filled in. The place had decayed before it
was completed.
In the farthest lot back was a cluster of what seemed to be finished
apartment complexes. Grass and weeds grew rampant around them, however,
climbing up their very walls; it looked like years of growth. It was hard to tell
whether anyone lived inside. Years ago, the city had been diligently preparing
for a population boom, one that never arrived.
“Are there even people out here?” Jessica was gazing out the window.
“There must be. There are parked cars.” John craned his neck. “I think
those are cars. I don’t know where we’re supposed to look, though.”
“I think we just have to drive around.” Charlie slowed the car as they
traversed the road leading toward the buildings.
“Maybe not,” John said. “I bet it’s somewhere near the edge of the
development. Most people would probably call the police if they saw eightfoot monsters digging holes in someone’s backyard. There is a lot of visibility
out here.”
“Of course,” Charlie said with dread in her voice. “They’re buried, out of
sight, and strategically placing themselves so as not to be found.” She looked

at John expectantly, but he just stared back. “They’re intelligent,” she
explained. “I think I would have liked it better if they were just roaming the
streets mindlessly. At least then someone could call the national guard or
something.” Charlie kept her eyes on the fields.
They drove around the outer edges of the development slowly, looking at
the yards of each house. Some of the buildings looked abandoned, the
windows boarded up or torn out completely, opening the apartments to the
elements. The storm had done its damage, but little had been done to repair it.
A tree had fallen across one cul-de-sac, blocking a building off completely.
But it didn’t look like anyone was trying to get in or out; the tree rotted where
it lay. There was litter strewn in the abandoned streets, collecting in the
gutters and bolstering the curbs. Maybe one apartment in five had curtains in
the window.
Occasionally they passed a parked car or a toppled tricycle on the patchy
grass. No one came outside, though Charlie thought she saw a curtain pull
shut as they drove past. In two backyards there were aboveground pools filled
by rainwater, and one had a large trampoline, its springs rusted and its canvas
torn.
“Just a second.” Charlie pulled to a stop, leaving the car running as she
approached a tall wooden fence. It was too high to climb, but there was a
single board that hung loose off its nail near the base. She squatted down and
pried it away to peek inside.
Two round black eyes glared at her.
Charlie froze. The eyes belonged to a dog, a massive thing, which started to
bark, its teeth gnashing and its chain clanking. Charlie slammed the board
back in place and walked to the car. “Okay, let’s keep going.”
“Nothing?” Jessica asked dubiously, and Charlie shook her head. “Maybe
they didn’t make it this far.”
“I think they did,” Charlie said. “I think they’re doing exactly what they
mean to.” She pulled the car over to the shoulder of the winding road and
looked at the apartment buildings on either side. “This could have been a nice
place to live,” she said softly.
“Why are we stopping?” John looked confused.
Charlie leaned back in her seat and closed her eyes. Locked in a box, a dark
and cramped box, can’t move, can’t see, can’t think. Let me out! Her eyes flew
open, and she grabbed the handle of the car door in a panic. She pulled
against it hard.
“It’s locked,” John said. He leaned across her to pull up the button lock.
“I know that,” she said angrily. She got out and closed the door. John
moved to follow her, but Jessica placed her hand on his shoulder.
“Leave her alone for a minute,” she said.
Charlie leaned over the trunk, propping her chin on her hands. What am I

missing, Dad? She stood up straight and stretched her arms over her head,
turning her whole body slowly to study her surroundings.
There was an empty lot beyond the development, not far from where they
were. It was marked out with telephone poles, only one of which had wires. A
breeze dragged the loose wires through the dirt, scattering gravel. It didn’t
look like it had ever been paved. There was a coil of barbed wire as tall as
Charlie, sitting uselessly in a corner. Empty cans and fast-food wrappers
littered the ground, the paper quivering and the cans rattling in the slight
wind, like they sensed something awful. The wind rushed up behind Charlie
and blew past her, straight toward the field, rustling the papers and cans and
sending waves across the patches of brown grass. Something wrong is planted
there.
Filled with a new energy, Charlie opened the car door just enough to lean
inside.
“That lot. We have to go look.”
“What do you see? It’s kind of out of the way,” John said.
Charlie nodded. “You said it yourself. If an eight-foot monster is digging
up the neighbor’s backyard, someone’s going to notice. Besides, I just have
… I have a feeling.”
Jessica got out of the car and John followed at her heels. Charlie already
had the trunk open. She pulled out a shovel, the big Maglite flashlight she
always kept close by, and a crowbar.
“I’ve only got one shovel,” she explained, making it clear she was keeping
it for herself. Jessica took the flashlight and made a practice swing with it, as
if hitting an invisible assailant.
“Why would you even have a shovel?” Jessica asked in a suspicious tone.
“Aunt Jen,” John said by way of explanation.
Jessica laughed. “Well, you never know when you might have to dig up a
robot.”
“Come on,” Charlie said, tossing John the crowbar and starting off. He
caught it with ease and jogged beside her, leaning in so Jessica wouldn’t hear.
“How come I don’t get the shovel?”
“I figure you can swing a crowbar harder than I can,” Charlie said.
He grinned. “Makes sense,” he said confidently, gripping the crowbar with
new purpose.
When they reached the edge of the lot, John and Jessica stopped, looking
down at the ground before them, as though scared of what they might step on.
Charlie went ahead across the loose dirt, gripping the shovel tightly. The field
was mostly barren soil, studded with large mounds of gravel and dirt that had
been left for so long that grass had begun growing on them.
“This must have been the dumping ground for when they were building,”
John said. He took a few steps into the lot, avoiding a broken glass bottle.

At the opposite edge was the tree line. Charlie studied it carefully, tracking
its path back in the direction they’d come.
John knelt beside a pile of gravel and carefully poked at it with his
crowbar, as though something might leap out. Jessica had wandered toward a
cluster of bushes. She crouched to pick something up, then quickly dropped it
and wiped her hands on her shirt. “Charlie, this place is disgusting!” she
cried.
Charlie had reached the tree line and began walking alongside it, studying
the ground.
“See anything?” John yelled from the other side of the lot.
Charlie ignored him. Deep grooves in the dirt extended from the trees,
snaking around the bushes. The large rocks nearby were freshly marked with
gashes and scrapes. “Not exactly footprints,” Charlie whispered as she
followed the grooves in the soil. Her foot touched soft ground, a sudden
contrast to the hard-packed dirt of the rest of the lot. She stepped back. The
dirt at her feet was discolored, familiar.
Charlie struck her shovel into the ground and started to dig, the metal
rasping noisily on the gravel mixed in with the dirt. Jessica and John ran
toward her.
“Careful,” John warned as he approached. He hefted the crowbar in his
hands like a baseball bat, ready to strike. Jessica hung back. Charlie saw that
her knuckles were white on the flashlight’s handle, but her face was calm and
determined. The dirt was loose and came away easily. At last the blade of the
shovel struck metal with a hollow clunk, and they all jumped. Charlie handed
the shovel to John and knelt in the mess of scattered earth, brushing away the
dirt with her hands.
“Careful!” Jessica said, her voice higher-pitched than usual, and John
echoed her.
“This was a horrible idea,” he murmured, scouting the area. “Where’s a
police car when you need one? Or any car?”
“It’s still day for a little while longer,” Charlie said absently, focused on the
ground as her hands ran through it, prying away rocks and clods of dirt,
digging to find what lay beneath.
“Yeah, it’s day. It was also day when that twisted Foxy attacked you earlier,
remember?” John said more urgently.
“Wait, WHAT?” Jessica exclaimed. “Charlie, get away from there! You
didn’t tell me that!” She turned on John accusingly.
“Look, a LOT has been going on, okay?” John raised his hands, palms out.
“Yeah, but if you’re going to sign me up for this stuff, then you need to tell
me about things like that! You were attacked?”
“Sign you up for this? You had one foot in the car at the first mention of
murder! You practically invited yourself.”

“Invited myself? You talk like I crashed your date, but you didn’t exactly
fall over yourself to refuse my help.” Jessica planted her hands on her hips.
“Charlie,” John sighed. “Can you please talk to—OH JEEZ.” He jumped
backward, and Jessica followed suit as soon as she looked down. Beneath
them, gazing up from the loose dirt, was an enormous metal face, staring
toward the sun. Charlie didn’t say anything. She was still busy scooping away
the soil from the edges, revealing two rounded ears on the sides of its head.
“Charlie. Is that … Freddy?” Jessica gasped.
“I don’t know. I think it was supposed to be.” Charlie heard the anxiety in
her own voice as she stared down at the large, lifeless bear with its perpetual
smile. The crude metal frame was covered with a layer of gelatinous plastic,
giving it an organic appearance, almost embryonic.
“It’s huge.” John gasped. “And there’s no fur …”
“Just like the other Foxy.” Charlie’s hands were getting sore. She cleared
the hair from her face and stood up.
It was Freddy, but somehow not. The bear’s eyes were open, glazed over
with the inanimate look of lifelessness Charlie knew so well. This bear was
dormant, for now.
“Charlie, we have to go,” John said with a tone of warning. But he didn’t
move, still staring downward. He knelt beside the face and began to claw at
the dirt above its forehead, clearing the earth away until he saw it: a filthy,
battered black top hat. Charlie felt a smile tugging at her mouth, and she bit
her lip.
“We should call Burke,” Jessica said. “Now.”
They all turned back toward the development as the wind rose again,
rushing past them and making waves in the tall grass. The earth was still, and
the sun was sinking lower behind the rolling hills in the distance.

Charlie tossed her keys to John. “You go. There’s a gas station a few miles
back the way we came. You can call from there.” He nodded, jangling the
keys in his hand.
“I’ll stay with you,” Jessica said instantly.
“No,” Charlie said, more forcefully than she intended. “Go with John.”
Jessica looked confused for a moment but finally nodded and headed off
toward the car.
“Are you sure?” John asked. Charlie waved her hand at him dismissively.
“Someone needs to stay with it. I’ll keep my distance. I promise. I won’t
disturb … it.”
“Okay.” Like Jessica, John hesitated for a moment. Then they left Charlie
alone in the empty lot. After a minute, she heard the engine start, and the
noise of the car faded as they drove off down the empty streets. She sat at the
top of the mound where she had uncovered the misshapen bear and gazed
down at it.
“What do you know?” she whispered. She stood and paced slowly over the
other two plots of disturbed soil, wondering what lay beneath. The bear was
frightening, misshapen, an imitation of Freddy created by someone else. It
was a strange variation, into which her father had never breathed life. But
William Afton—Dave—did. The man who designed these things was the same
man who had stolen and murdered her brother.
A thought surfaced, a question that had visited her many times before: Why
did he take Sammy? Charlie had asked herself, the wind, and her dreams that
question endlessly. Why did he take Sammy? But she had always meant, Why
not me? Why was I the one who lived? She stared down at the soil beneath

her, envisioning the bear’s strange, embryonic face. The children murdered at
Freddy Fazbear’s had lived on after death, their spirits lodged somehow
inside the animatronic costumes that had killed them. Could Sammy’s spirit
be imprisoned somehow, behind a large, rectangular door?
Charlie shivered and stood up, suddenly wanting to put as much distance as
possible between her and the twisted Freddy buried in the soil. The image of
his face came to her again, and this time it made her skin crawl. Did the other
two mounds hide similar creatures? Was there a malformed rabbit hidden in
the dirt just there? A chicken clutching a cupcake to its grotesque chest? But
the thing that tried to kill me—tried to envelop me—it was designed to kill.
There could be anything buried down there, waiting for nightfall. She could
look, dig up the other two mounds to see what lay slumbering beneath. But as
soon as she thought it she could almost feel the lock of metal hands on her
arms, forcing her inside that deathly, cavernous chest.
Charlie took a few deliberate steps back from the mounds, wishing just a
little that she had allowed Jessica to stay.
* * *
“How has your visit with Charlie been?” Jessica asked in a conspiratorial tone
as they made the final turn out of the development and onto the main road.
John didn’t take his eyes off the road. “It’s been fun to see her again. You,
too,” he added, and she laughed.
“Yes, you’ve always loved me. Don’t worry, I know you’re here to see
her.”
“I’m here for a job, actually.”
“Right,” Jessica said. She turned and looked out the window. “Do you think
Charlie’s changed?” she asked abruptly.
John was silent for a moment, picturing the bedroom Charlie had turned
into a scrap heap and Theodore, ripped apart and strewn in pieces. He thought
of her tendency to retreat into herself, losing whole minutes as if she were
stepping briefly out of time. Do I think she’s changed?
“No,” he said finally.
“I don’t think she has, either.” Jessica sighed.
“What did you find at Freddy’s?” John asked.
“Dave,” Jessica said plainly, waiting for a moment before looking at John.
“Right where we left him.”
“And you’re sure he was dead?” John looked down.
Jessica swallowed hard, suddenly seeing the body again. She pictured the
discolored skin and the costume that had sunken into his rotting flesh, fusing
the man to the mascot in a grotesque eternity.
“He was dead all right,” she said hoarsely.
The gas station was just up ahead. John parked in the small lot and got out

of the car without waiting for Jessica. She followed at his heels.
“What a dump.” Jessica spun, marveling at the surroundings. “Surely there
was a better place to …” Jessica stopped short, suddenly seeing the teenage
boy behind the counter. He was staring into space, watching something just
behind them and to the left.
“Excuse me,” John said. “Do you have a public phone?” The boy shook his
head.
“No, not public,” he said, gesturing to it.
“Could we use it? Please?”
“Customers only.”
“I’ll pay for the call,” John said. “Look, this is important.” The boy looked
at them, his eyes finally focusing, as if only just registering their presence. He
nodded slowly.
“Okay, but you have to buy something while she makes the call.” He
shrugged, helpless against the rules of management.
“John, just give me the number,” Jessica said. He dug it out of his pocket
and handed it to her. As she went behind the counter, John scanned the
shelves impatiently, looking for the cheapest item available.
“We have Popsicles,” the kid said.
“No, thanks,” John said.
“They’re free.” He pointed at the cooler.
“Well, how’s that going to help me if they’re free?”
“I’ll let it count as a purchase.” The boy winked.
John clenched his jaw and lifted the lid of the cooler, jerking slightly at the
sight of the taxidermy coyote hidden inside.
“Brilliant. Did you stuff that yourself?” he asked loudly.
The boy laughed, a sudden, snorting sound. “Hey!” he yelled as John
grabbed the carcass by the head and yanked it out of the cooler. “Hey! You
can’t do that!” John marched to the door, out into the parking lot, and hurled
the dead thing into the road. “Hey!” The boy screamed again and ran out into
the street, disappearing into a cloud of dust.
“John?” Jessica hurried out from around the counter. “Clay’s on his way.”
“Great.” He followed her out to the car.
* * *
Charlie was still walking in circles, glancing up at the horizon every few
seconds. She felt like a sentry, or the keeper of a vigil. She couldn’t stop
imagining the animatronics buried there, whatever they were. They weren’t in
boxes, not even shielded from the dirt; it would sink into their every pore and
joint, it would fill them. They could open their mouths to scream, but the
relentless dirt would just flow in, too fast for sound to escape.
Charlie shivered and rubbed her arms, looking up at the sky. It was turning

orange, and shadows from the weeds began stretching out across the ground.
Giving the mounds a sideways glance, she walked with deliberate steps to the
other side of the lot where the only telephone pole with wires stood. They
hung down from it like the branches of a weeping willow, dragging in the dirt.
As Charlie got closer she saw small, dark shapes by its base. She approached
slowly: they were rats, all lying stiff and dead. She stared down at them for a
long moment, then whirled, startled, at the sounds of cars.
John and Jessica had returned, and Clay was just behind them. He must
have already been in the area.
“Watch out for that pole,” Charlie said by way of greeting. “I think the
wires are live.”
John laughed. “No one touch the wires. Glad you’re okay.”
Clay didn’t speak; he was busy examining the patches of dirt. He walked
around them as Charlie had, peering at them from every angle, then finally
came to a stop when he’d made a full circle. “You dug one of these up?” he
asked, and Charlie could hear the strain behind his level voice.
“No,” John said hastily. “We just uncovered part of it, then covered it back
up.”
Clay looked down again. “I’m not sure if that makes it better or worse,” he
said, his eyes still on the mounds.
“It looked like Freddy,” Charlie said urgently. “It looked like a strange,
misshapen Freddy. There was something wrong with it.”
“What was wrong?” Clay asked gently. He looked at her with serious eyes.
“I don’t know,” Charlie said helplessly. “But there’s something wrong with
all of them.”
“Well, they’re murdering people,” Jessica offered. “I’d count that as
something being wrong with them.”
“Charlie,” Clay said, still focused on her, “If you can tell me anything else
about these things, then now’s the time. We have to assume that, as Jessica
told me over the phone, they’re going to kill again tonight.”
Charlie dropped to her knees in the place where they had dug up the
twisted Freddy, and began digging again.
“What are you doing?” John protested.
“Clay needs to see it,” she muttered.
“What in the …” Clay inched forward to study the face, then took a long
step back to observe the disturbed plots of earth, measuring the size of the
things buried at their feet.
“We have to evacuate these buildings,” John said. “Otherwise, what are we
going to do when these things get up? Ask them to go back to bed? There
aren’t that many apartments in this area that actually have people living in
them. There’s only one building in the whole block,” he said, pointing,
“maybe two, that looked occupied.”

“Okay, I’m going to go check it out and see who’s home. Keep watch over
these things.” Clay studied the row of buildings and made his way toward
them.
“So we wait,” John said.
Charlie continued watching the skyline. Dark clouds were rolling over the
sun, making it appear as though night had fallen early.
“Do you hear that?” Jessica whispered.
Charlie knelt beside the metal face half-buried in the ground and turned her
ear to it. “Charlie!” John startled. She lifted her head and stared at the face
again. It had changed from one moment to the next. Its features had smoothed
over, become less crude. She looked up at John, her eyes wide. “It’s
changing.”
“Wait, what? What does that mean?” Jessica said, looking horrified.
“It means something is very wrong,” he said. Jessica waited for him to
explain.
“We’re not at Freddy’s anymore,” was all he offered.
Clay returned from across the field.
“Everyone into the car,” he said.
“My car?” Charlie asked.
Clay shook his head. “Mine.” Charlie was about to protest, but Clay gave
her a stern look. “Charlie, unless your car has a siren and you’ve had highspeed pursuit training, stand down.” She nodded.
“What did you tell them?” Jessica asked suddenly.
“I told them there was a gas leak in the area,” Clay said. “Scary enough to
get them out, not so scary as to start a panic.” Jessica nodded. She looked
almost impressed, like she was taking mental notes.
They piled into Clay’s car, Jessica quickly claiming the front seat, though
Charlie suspected that she just wanted to leave her alone next to John. The
cruiser sat at the edge of the lot, as far from the mounds as they could be
without edging onto the road. As the sun sank below the horizon and the final
streaks of light bled away into darkness, a single streetlight flickered on. It
was old, the light almost orange, and it sputtered at intervals, as if it might fail
at any moment. Charlie watched it for a while, empathizing.
John was busy staring out across the field, unblinking, but as the hour
passed he began to slouch in his seat. He let out a yawn, then quickly brought
himself back to alertness. An elbow poked him in the ribs and he turned to
find Charlie with a mess of wires in her lap, studying something carefully.
“What are you doing?” he asked, then turned his gaze back to the field.
“I’m trying to see what exactly this thing does.” Charlie had the metal disc
firmly in her hand. It was the one they’d wrestled from the monster that day.
She was trying to connect it properly to the diagnostic tool’s small keypad and
display.

“Okay, John, don’t puke on me.” She smiled, her finger ready to flick the
switch.
“I’ll do my best,” he grumbled and tried to concentrate on the dimly lit
field.
“What is that?” Jessica whispered.
“We found it inside the animatronic that attacked us today,” Charlie was
eager to explain. Jessica leaned in closer to see. “It emits some kind of signal;
we don’t know what it is.”
“It changes what those things look like.” John turned his head from the
window with a nauseated look.
“It changes our perception of what they look like,” Charlie corrected.
“How?” Jessica seemed captivated.
“I’m not sure yet, but maybe we can find out.” Charlie dug her nail into the
groove and pulled the switch. “Ugh, I can hear it already.”
John sighed. “And I can feel it.”
“I can’t …” Jessica tilted her head to listen. “Maybe I can. I don’t know.”
“It’s very high-pitched.” Charlie was busy turning small knobs on the
handheld display, trying to get a readout from the device.
“It gets into your head.” John rubbed his forehead. “This morning it almost
made me sick.”
“Of course,” Charlie whispered. “It gets into your head.”
“What?” Jessica turned toward her.
“These readings looked nonsensical at first. I thought something was
wrong.”
“And?” John said impatiently when Charlie suddenly went silent.
“In class we learned that when the brain is overstimulated, it fills in gaps
for you. So, say you pass a red hexagonal sign on the road, and someone asks
you what words were on it. You’d say ‘STOP.’ And you’d imagine that you
saw it. You’d be able to picture that stop sign the way it should have been.
That is, of course, if you were properly distracted and didn’t notice an
obviously blank sign. This thing distracts us. Somehow it makes our brains
fill in blanks with previous experiences, the things we think we should be
seeing.”
“How does it do that? What’s in the actual signal?” John glanced back
again, only half listening.
“It’s a pattern. Sort of.” Charlie leaned back, letting her arms relax, the
device cradled in her hands. “The disc emits five sound waves that
continuously vary in frequency. First they match one another, then they don’t;
they go in and out of harmony, always on the edge of forming a predictable
sequence, then branching away.”
“I don’t understand. So, it’s not a pattern?” John said.
“It’s not, but that’s the whole point. It almost makes sense, but not quite.”

Charlie paused, thinking for a moment. “The tone fluctuations happen so fast
that they’re only detected by your subconscious. Your mind goes mad trying
to make sense of it; it’s immediately overwhelmed. It’s like the opposite of
white noise: you can’t follow it, and you can’t tune it out.”
“So the animatronics aren’t changing shape. We’re just being distracted.
What’s the purpose of that, though?” John had turned away from the window,
giving up the pretense of ignoring the conversation.
“To earn our trust. To look more friendly. To look more real.” As the
possibilities stacked up, a grim picture began to form in Charlie’s mind.
John laughed. “To look more real, maybe. But they certainly don’t strike
me as friendly.”
“To lure kids closer,” Charlie continued. The car got quiet.
“Let’s just focus on getting through the night, okay?” Clay said from the
front seat. “I can’t call this in as is. Right now it’s just buried junk in a field.
But if you’re right, and something starts moving out there …” He didn’t
finish. John leaned against the car door, propping his head against the window
so he could keep watching.
Charlie leaned her head back, letting her eyes close for just a few moments.
Across the field, the orange bulb continued to flicker with a hypnotic pulse.
* * *
Minutes passed, and then almost another hour. Clay glanced at the teenagers.
They had all fallen asleep. Charlie and John were awkwardly leaning on each
other. Jessica had curled up with her feet on the seat beneath her and her head
resting on the narrow window ledge. She looked like a cat, or a human who
was going to wake up with neck problems. Clay shrugged his shoulders up
and down, seized with the odd alertness he always felt when he was the only
one awake. When Carlton had been a baby, he and Betty would take turns
getting up with him. But while Betty had been exhausted by it, barely making
it through the following day, Clay had found himself almost energized. There
was something about walking through the world when no one else was
stirring. It made him feel as if he could protect them all, as if he could make
everything all right. Oh, Betty. He blinked, the orange streetlight suddenly
shimmering as his eyes moistened. He took a deep breath, regaining control.
There was nothing I could say, was there? Unbidden, the memory of their last
conversation—their last fight—reared in his mind.
“All hours of the night. It’s not healthy. You’re obsessed!”
“You’re as consumed by your work as I am. It’s something we have in
common, remember? Something we love about each other.”
“This is different, Clay. This worries me.”
“You’re being irrational.”
She laughed, a sound like breaking glass. “If you think that, then we’re not

living in the same reality.”
“Maybe we’re not.”
“Maybe not.”
The light changed. Clay glanced around, fully focused on the present again.
The orange streetlight was fading, the flickering growing faster. As he
watched, it gave a final heroic burst and went dark.
“Damn it,” he said aloud. Jessica stirred in her sleep, making a small
protesting noise. Quietly, but quickly, Clay exited the car, grabbing the
flashlight from its place beside his seat. He closed the door and started toward
the mounds, his frantic light shaking out across the field until it disappeared.
Charlie roused. Her heart was racing, but she couldn’t tell if it was from the
sudden awakening, or from the remnants of a dream she could no longer
recall. She shook John.
“John, Jessica. Something’s going on.” Charlie was out of the car and
running before they could answer, heading toward the mounds. “Clay!” she
called. He jumped at the sound of her voice.
“They’re gone.” Charlie gasped, stumbling on the upturned earth. Clay was
already running toward the apartment nearest him. “Go back to the car,” he
barked over his shoulder. Charlie ran after him, glancing back, trying to spot
John and Jessica. Charlie’s eyes weren’t adjusted yet and Clay’s flashlight
seemed to sink into the darkness ahead of him. Charlie could only follow the
sounds of his footsteps as he charged through the shallow grass.
She finally came to a brick wall and sprinted around it to the front of the
apartment. Clay was at the door already. He banged against it and impatiently
peered into the nearest window. No one answered; no one was inside.
A scream cut through the night, and Charlie froze. It was high-pitched and
human, reverberating off the walls of the houses. It came again. Clay aimed
his light in the direction of the sound.
“We missed someone!” he shouted. He darted around the side of the house,
running blindly back across the field. The scream seemed to be in motion,
making its way rapidly toward the black trees.
“Over here!” Charlie cried, breaking from behind Clay and running toward
an indistinct movement in the dark.
“Charlie!” John’s voice cut distantly through the night, but Charlie didn’t
wait for him. The sound of gravel under her feet was deafening. She came to
an abrupt stop, realizing she’d lost her bearings. “Charlie!” someone yelled in
the distance. The rest was lost in the rustle of the trees as a night wind swept
through. She tried to keep her eyes open as grains of sand pelted her face.
Then the wind finally calmed, and there was another rustle of branches
nearby, this one unnatural. Charlie stumbled toward the sound, holding her
arms in front of her until she could see again.
Then it was there. Just at the edge of the tree line, a misshapen figure stood

hunched in the darkness. Charlie stopped short a few yards away, struck still,
suddenly aware that she was alone. The thing lurched to the side, then stepped
toward her, revealing a sleek snout. A wolf’s mane ran over the top of its head
and down its back. It was stooped over, one arm twisted downward while the
other flailed up. Perhaps its control over its limbs was uncertain. It was
looking at Charlie, and she met its eyes: they were piercing blue and selfilluminating. Yet while the eyes held a steady light, the rest of the creature
was in flux, morphing in a disorienting fashion even as she watched. One
moment it was a groomed and agile figure covered in silver hair, the next a
tattered metal framework, partly coated in rubbery translucent skin. Its eyes
were stark white bulbs. The creature flinched and convulsed, finally settling
on its crude metal appearance. Charlie drew in a sharp breath, and the wolf
broke its stare.
It spasmed alarmingly, doubling over. Its chest split open, folding outward
like a horrid metal mouth. The parts made a grinding, abrasive sound. Charlie
stifled a scream, rooted to the spot. It lurched again, and something fell from
inside it, landing solidly on the ground. The wolf toppled forward beside it,
shuddered, and went still.
“Oh no.” Clay arrived from behind Charlie, staring at the human body that
lay writhing in the grass.
Charlie remained motionless, captivated by the wolfish pinpoints of light
that stared back at her. The thing tucked its head down, suddenly flowing
again with a silver mane. It folded its long, silken ears, and slunk backward,
disappearing into the woods. There was a rustling in the trees, and then it was
gone.
No sooner had Jessica arrived than Clay was forcefully shoving the light
into her hands. “Take it!” Clay knelt by the body doubled over in the grass
and checked for a pulse. “She’s alive,” he said, but his voice was hard. He
bent over her, looking for something else.
“Charlie!” It was John, tugging at her shoulder. “Charlie, come on, we have
to get help!”
John took off running and Charlie followed more slowly, unable to take her
eyes off the woman who seemed to be dying on the ground. Clay’s voice
faded into the darkness behind them.
“Miss, are you all right? Miss? Can you hear me?”

Professor Treadwell seemed restless. Her face was calm as ever, but as the
students worked, she paced back and forth across the auditorium stage, the
heels of her shoes making a repetitive click. Arty poked Charlie, nodded
toward the professor, and quickly mimed screaming. Charlie smiled and
turned back to her own work. She didn’t mind the sound. The professor’s
sharp, regular steps were like a metronome, marking the time.
She reread the first question: Describe the difference between a conditional
loop and an infinite loop. Charlie sighed. She knew the answer; it just seemed
pointless to write it down. A conditional loop happens only when certain
conditions she started, then scratched it out and sighed again, staring out over
the heads of the other students.
She could see the face of the wolf again, shimmering back and forth
between its two faces: the illusion and the frame beneath it. Its eyes stared
into her own, as if reading something deep inside her. Who are you? Who
were you supposed to be? she thought. She had never seen it before, and it
worried her. Freddy Fazbear’s Pizza didn’t have a wolf.
Charlie had a near-photographic memory, she’d realized last year. It was
the reason she had such recall of even her early childhood. But she didn’t
remember the wolf. That’s silly, she told herself. There’s plenty you don’t
remember. And yet her memories of her father’s workshop were so strong: the
smell, the heat. Her father bent over his workbench, and the place in the
corner where she didn’t like to look. It was all so present within her, so
immediate. Even the things she didn’t remember without prompting, like the
old Fredbear’s Family Diner, had been instantly familiar as soon as she’d seen
them. Yet these creatures had no foothold in her memory. She didn’t know

them, but they clearly knew her.
Why were they entombed in the back of the house like that? Why not just
destroyed? Her father’s deep attachment to his creations had never
outweighed his pragmatism. If something didn’t work, he dismantled it for
parts. He had done the same with Charlie’s own toys.
She blinked, suddenly recalling.
He held it out to her, a little green frog with horn-rimmed glasses over its
bulging eyes. Charlie looked at it skeptically.
“No,” she said.
“Don’t you want to see what he does?” her father protested, and she
crossed her arms and shook her head.
“No,” she mumbled. “I don’t like the big eyes.” Despite her protests, her
father set the frog on the ground in front of her and pressed a button hidden
beneath the plastic at its neck. It rotated its head from side to side, then
suddenly leaped in the air. Charlie screamed and jumped back, and her father
rushed to pick her up.
“I’m sorry, sweetheart. It’s okay,” he whispered. “I didn’t mean for it to
startle you.”
“I don’t like the eyes,” she sobbed against his neck, and he held her for a
long moment. Then set her down and picked up the frog. He put it on his
workbench, took a short knife from the shelf, and sliced its skin along its
entire length. Charlie clapped a hand over her mouth and made a small,
squeaking sound, watching wide-eyed as he carelessly peeled the green
casing off the robot. The plastic split with a loud cracking noise in the quiet
workshop. The frog’s legs kicked helplessly.
“I didn’t mean it,” she said hoarsely. “I’m sorry, I didn’t mean it! Daddy!”
She was speaking aloud, but it was mostly air. Her voice was somehow
constrained, like in dreams where she tried to scream, but nothing came out.
Her father was intent on his work and didn’t seem to hear her.
The stripped-down robot lay prone before him on the bench. He prodded it
and it made a horrible twitch, its back legs kicking out uselessly, repeating the
motion of its leap into the air. It tried again, more frantically, like it was in
pain.
“Wait. Daddy, don’t hurt him,” Charlie mouthed, trying and failing to force
out the sound. Her father selected a tiny screwdriver and began to work at the
frog’s head, deftly unscrewing something on each side. He removed the back
of the skull to reach inside. Its whole body convulsed. Charlie ran to her
father’s side and grabbed his leg, tugging at the knee of his pants. “Please!”
she cried, her voice returning.
He disconnected something, and the skeleton went completely limp. Joints
that had been stiff collapsed into a slump of parts. The eyes, which Charlie
had not even noticed were lit, dimmed, flickered, and went dark. She let go of

her father and moved back into the recess of the workshop, putting both hands
over her mouth again so that he would not hear her cry as he began to
methodically dismantle the frog.
Charlie shook her head, pulling herself back to the present. The child’s
guilt still clung to her, like a weight in her chest. She gently pressed her hand
there. My father was pragmatic, she thought. Parts were expensive, and he
didn’t waste them on things that didn’t work. She forced her mind to the
problem at hand.
So why would he have buried them alive?
“Buried who alive?” Arty hissed, and she turned, startled.
“Shouldn’t you be busy doing something?” she said hastily, mortified to
have spoken aloud.
The creatures had been buried in a chamber like a mausoleum, hidden in
the walls of the house. Her father hadn’t wanted to destroy them for some
reason, and he had wanted them nearby. Why? So he could keep an eye on
them? Or did he even know they were there? Did Dave somehow hide them
there without his knowledge? She shook her head. It didn’t matter. What
mattered was what the creatures were going to do next.
She closed her eyes again, trying to envision the wolflike creature. She’d
only seen it for that moment, as it disgorged the woman inside it and hovered
between states, its illusion flickering like a faulty lightbulb. Charlie held on to
the image, kept it frozen in her mind. She’d been fixated first on the victim,
then on the wolf’s eyes, but she had still seen the rest of it. Now she pictured
the scene, ignoring the wolf’s gaze, ignoring the panic that had seized her, the
others shouting and running around her. She watched it happen again and
again, picturing the chest sliding open one toothlike rib at a time, then the
woman falling out.
She realized she had a better picture of the same thing stored away: the
creature in the tomb, just before it tried to swallow her. She visualized its
chest opening, searching her mind to see what lay beyond the hideous mouth,
inside the cavernous chest. Then she bent her head over her exam book and
began to draw.
“Time,” called one of the graduate students. The other three began to march
up the aisles, collecting blue books one by one. Charlie only had half a
sentence in answer to the first question, and it was crossed out—the rest of the
book was a mess of mechanisms and monsters. Just before the teaching
assistant reached her, she quietly tucked the book under her arm. She exited
the row, blending in with the students who had already finished. She didn’t
speak to anyone on the way out, drifting more than walking, focused on her
own thoughts as her body carried her aimlessly down the familiar hallway.
She found a bench and sat. She looked around at the passing students,
chatting to one another or lost in thoughts of their own. It was as if a wall had

risen up, circling only her, completely isolating her from everything around
her.
She opened her book again, to the page where she’d spent her test time
scribbling. There, staring back at her, were the faces she understood: the faces
of monsters and murderers, with blank eyes that pierced right through her,
even from her own sketches. What are you trying to tell me? She stood,
clenching her book, then took one last look at her surroundings.
It felt as though she were saying good-bye to a chapter of her life, another
passage that would become nothing more than a haunting memory.
“Charlie,” John’s voice said from nearby. She glanced around, trying to
find him through the thick flow of students exiting the building.
She finally spotted him off to the side of the stairs. “Oh, hey,” she called
and made her way over. “What are you doing here? Not that I’m not glad to
see you, I just thought you had to work,” she added hastily, trying to settle the
whirling thoughts in her head.
“Clay called me. He tried your dorm, but you were here I guess. The
woman we … from last night. She’s going to be okay. He said he went to the
next area, the next spot on the map, and drove around.” John glanced at the
crowd of students streaming past them and lowered his voice. “You know, the
next place they’re going to—”
“I know,” Charlie said quickly, forestalling the explanation. “What did he
find?”
“Well, it’s a lot of empty space and fields mostly. One plot for future
development, but it’s vacant. He thinks we should focus on tomorrow instead.
He has a plan.” Charlie looked at him blankly.
“We’re going to have to fight them,” he said at last. “We both know that.
But it won’t be tonight.”
Charlie nodded. “So what do we do tonight then?” she asked helplessly.
“Dinner?” John suggested.
“You can’t be serious.” Charlie’s tone dropped.
“I know there’s a lot going on, but we still need to eat, right?”
Charlie stared at the ground, collecting her thoughts. “Sure. Dinner.” She
smiled. “This is all pretty awful. It might be nice to get my mind off it, even if
just for an evening.”
“Okay,” he said, and shifted awkwardly. “I’m going to run home and
change then. I won’t be long.”
“John, none of this has to involve you,” Charlie said softly. She gripped the
straps of her backpack with both hands, as if they were tethering her to the
ground.
“What are you talking about?” John looked at her, his self-consciousness
gone.
“It doesn’t have to involve anybody. It’s me they’re looking for.”

“We don’t know that for sure,” he said, and put a hand on her shoulder.
“You have to get that out of your head for a while. You’ll drive yourself
crazy.” John smiled briefly, but he still looked worried. “Try to do something
relaxing for a bit, take a nap or something. I’ll see you for dinner, okay? Same
restaurant at seven?”
“Okay,” she echoed. He looked at her helplessly and gave a distressed
smile, then turned and went.
* * *
Jessica was gone when Charlie got back to the dorm. She closed the door
behind her with a sense of relief. She needed quiet. She needed to think, and
she needed to move. She looked around, paralyzed for a moment. Her system
of piling everything up as she used it was functional day-to-day, but when
searching for something she hadn’t touched in weeks, the system broke down.
“Where is it?” she muttered, scanning the room. Her eyes lit on Theodore’s
head, lying tumbled up against the leg of her bed. She picked it up and
brushed off the dust, stroking his long ears until they were clean, if matted
and patchy. “You used to be so soft,” she told the rabbit’s head. She set it on
the bed, propped up on her pillow. “I guess I did, too,” she added and sighed.
“Have you seen my duffel bag?” she asked the dismembered toy. “Maybe
under the bed?” She got down on her knees to check. It was there, all the way
at the far side, crushed by a pile of books and clothing that had fallen through
the space between the bed and the wall. Charlie wriggled under the bed until
she could snag the strap, then dragged it out and set it on top.
It was empty—she’d dumped out the contents as soon as she arrived, a
harbinger of the messy habits to follow. She grabbed her toothbrush and
toothpaste and zipped them into the bag’s side pocket.
“I lied to John,” she said. “No, that’s not right. I let him lie to me. He has to
know it’s me they’re coming for. We all do. And this isn’t going to stop.” She
picked up clothing from what she thought was the clean pile, pulling out a Tshirt and jeans, socks and underwear, and shoving them emphatically into her
bag as she spoke. “Why else would they be coming in this direction?” she
asked the rabbit. “But … how would they even know?” She threw two
textbooks into the bag and patted her pocket, reassuring herself that the disc
and the diagnostic keyboard were there. She zipped up the bag and tilted her
head, meeting Theodore’s plastic eyes.
“It’s not just that,” she said. “This thing …” She measured the disc in her
hand and studied it anew. “It made John sick. But it sings a song to me.” She
broke off, unsure of what that meant about her. “I don’t know if I’ve ever
known anything with quite such certainty,” she said quietly. “But I have to do
this. Afton made them. And Afton took Sammy. When I was with John, I
could feel … something in the house. It had to be him; it was like the missing

part of me was there, closer than it had ever been. I just couldn’t quite reach
it. And I think those monsters are the only things in the world that might have
answers.”
Theodore stared back at her, unmoved.
“It’s me they want. No one else is going to die because of me.” She sighed.
“At least I have you to protect me, right?” She slung the bag over her back
and turned to go, then paused. She grabbed Theodore’s head by the ears and
held him up to her own eye level. “I think today I need all the support I can
get,” she whispered. She shoved him into her bag, then hurried out of the
dorm to her car.
The map was in the glove compartment. Charlie took it out and spread it in
front of her, glancing at it momentarily then putting it away with confidence.
She drove slowly out of the lot. Though she passed people and other cars on
her way, she felt as though she was just part of the background, unseen to the
world. By the time she and her car slipped out of sight, she’d already be
forgotten.
* * *
The sky was cloudy; it gave the world a sense of waiting. It seemed like
Charlie had the road to herself, and peacefulness overtook her. She’d been
preoccupied with isolation today, but the speed and openness were
comforting. She didn’t feel alone. The tree line seemed to race across the field
when she watched it from the window, an illusion made by the speeding car.
She began to feel as though there were something in the woods matching her
speed, darting through the blur of branches, a silent companion, someone
coming to tell her everything that she ever wanted to know. I’m coming, she
whispered.
The street dwindled from a highway to a country road, then to a gravel
path. It rose up a long hill, and as Charlie slowly ascended, she could see
clusters of houses and cars in distant, more populated areas. She turned a
corner and left it all behind: there were no more houses, no more cars. The
rows of trees had been replaced with lines of stumps and piles of brush,
accompanied by the occasional blank billboard that, presumably, would
someday announce what was to come. Slabs of concrete and half-paved
driveways interrupted the countryside, and an abandoned bulldozer sat in the
distance. Charlie took Theodore’s head from her bag and set it on the
passenger seat.
“Stay alert,” she said.
Then she saw it: a single ranch-style house stood at the center of it all,
surrounded by bulldozed land and the bare rib cages of half-built houses
jutting from the ground. It was out of place: painted, fenced, and even planted
with flowers in the garden. That’s when it made sense. A show house.

The road stopped a few yards into the development, replaced by worndown tracks in the dirt where the machinery came in and out. Charlie slowed
the car to a stop. “Even you can’t follow me this time,” she said to the rabbit’s
head, then got out and closed the door, giving Theodore a smile through the
window.
Charlie walked the trail slowly. The hulking, unfinished frames of the
houses seemed to watch her reproachfully as she trespassed. The gravel
crunched under her feet in the silence. There wasn’t even a breeze; everything
was still. She stopped when she reached higher ground and surveyed her
surroundings for a moment. Everything was disturbed. Everything was
upturned. She glanced above her as a single bird passed overhead, barely
visible from its soaring height. Her eyes returned to the wasteland. “You’re
here somewhere, aren’t you?”
At last she reached the lone finished house. It was set at the center of a neat
square of perfectly trimmed grass, towering above its stooped, halfconstructed neighbors. Charlie stared at the lawn for a moment before
realizing that it must be fake, just like whatever furniture was inside.
She didn’t try the door right away, instead going around to the backyard. It
was laid out in a neat square of AstroTurf, just like the front, but here the
illusion had been ruined. Ragged strips of grass had been torn up. The place
radiated a sense of distress, now eerily familiar. Charlie just stared for a
moment, certainty pulsing through her. She clenched her jaw, then went back
around to the front door. It opened easily, without even a whisper of sound,
and Charlie went inside.
It was dark in the house. She flipped a light switch experimentally, and it
illuminated the whole place in an instant. A fully furnished living room
greeted her, complete with leather chairs and a couch, and even candles on the
fireplace mantle. She started to close the front door behind her, then hesitated,
leaving it ajar. She walked farther into the living room, where there was an Lshaped couch and a wide-screen TV. I’m surprised it hasn’t been stolen, she
thought. But when she went closer she saw why—it wasn’t real. There were
no cords or cables coming from it. The whole place had a surreal quality,
almost of mockery.
She walked slowly into the dining room, her feet clapping against the
polished hardwood floor. Inside was a beautiful, mahogany dining set. Charlie
bent over to look at the underside of the table. “Balsa wood,” she said,
grinning to herself. It was a light, airy wood, made for model airplanes, not
furniture; she could probably lift the table over her head if she wanted to.
Down a short hallway from the dining room was a kitchen with gleaming new
appliances, or at least imitations of them. There was also a back door in the
kitchen. She unlocked it and pushed it open halfway, leaning outside and
looking again at the expansive, tortured landscape. There were several stone

steps here, leading down into a small garden. She stepped back inside, being
sure to leave the door hanging slightly open.
There was a second long hall off the living room. This led to bedrooms and
a small room fashioned into an office or den, complete with tall bookshelves,
a desk, and an inbox tray full of empty file folders. Charlie sat down in the
desk chair, finding herself enchanted by the utterly surface imitation of life.
She spun the chair once, then stood again, not wanting to get distracted. There
was a door to the outside here, too, though it was oddly placed beside the
desk. Charlie opened it, fiddling with the latch until she was sure it would
stay open. She continued on her way, walking through the house
systematically, unlocking and opening each window she came to. Then she
went down to the basement, where a storm cellar hung over a set of steep
stone stairs. She opened that as well, leaving the doors gaping wide. Outside,
dark had fallen.
There were several bedrooms, each furnished and made up with bright
curtains and silk sheets, and a large bathroom with marble sinks. Charlie
turned the faucet to see if there was water, but nothing happened, not even the
grinding of pipes trying and failing. There was a master bedroom with an
enormous bed, a guest room that somehow looked even less lived-in than the
rest of the house, and a nursery with a life-size menagerie painted on the wall
and a mobile hanging above a crib. Charlie glanced inside each, then went
back into the master bedroom.
The bed was wide and covered in a light canopy of white mosquito netting.
The covers were white as well, and the moon shone through the window to
illuminate the pillows. It had an uncanny effect, as if whoever slept there
would be on display. Charlie went to the window and leaned out, breathing in
the soothing, cool night air. She looked up at the sky. It was still cloudy; there
were only a few stars visible. She’d been moving with such grim, impulsive
energy until now, but this part would be agonizing. Long hours might pass
before anything happened, and all she could do was wait. A nervous fluttering
had begun to fill her stomach. She wanted to pace, or even to run away, but
she closed her eyes and clenched her jaw. It’s me they want.
At last, Charlie pulled herself away from the window. She’d packed
pajamas in the bag out in the car, but this sterile house full of props and
imitations felt too strange for her to actually dress for bed. Instead she just
took off her sneakers and considered her bedtime rituals complete. She laid
down on the bed and tried to conjure her nightmares, gathering up those final
moments with Sammy and holding them close to her like a talisman. Hold on,
she thought. I’m coming.
* * *
John checked his watch. She’s just running late. But she was late last time,

too. The waitress caught his eye, and he shook his head. Of course, last time
she showed up covered in filth. He’d already called her dorm room, but the
phone just rang and rang. He’d seen what he’d thought was an answering
machine when he was there, but realized only as he was waiting for it to pick
up that it could have been one of Charlie’s projects, or some piece of
discarded junk. The waitress refilled his water glass, and he smiled at her.
She shook her head. “Same girl?” she asked gently.
John let out an involuntary laugh. “Yes, same girl,” he said. “But it’s okay.
She’s not standing me up, she’s just … busy. College life, you know.”
“Of course. Let me know if you want to order.” She gave him another look
of pity and went away. He shook his head.
Suddenly, he saw Charlie’s hands on her backpack straps, holding on so
tight that her knuckles had gone white. They’re coming for me, she’d said.
Charlie wasn’t the type to wait around patiently for something to happen to
her.
He got up and walked urgently to the pay phone at the back of the
restaurant. Clay picked up on the first ring.
“Clay, it’s John. Have you heard from Charlie?”
“No. What’s wrong?”
“Nothing,” John said reflexively. “I mean, I don’t know. She was supposed
to meet me, and she’s—twenty-four minutes late. I know it’s not a lot, but she
said something earlier that’s bothering me. I think she might do something
stupid.”
“Where are you?” John gave him the address. “I’ll be right there,” Clay
said and hung up before John could reply.

For the first few minutes, Charlie kept her eyes shut, feigning sleep, but after
a little while they began to flutter of their own accord. She squeezed her eyes
shut, trying to force them to stay closed, but it became unbearable. She
opened them into the darkness and at once felt relief.
The house had grown cool with night. The open window let in fresh, clean
air. She breathed deeply, trying with each exhalation to make herself calm.
She wasn’t anxious so much as impatient. Hurry up, she thought. I know
you’re out there.
But there was only silence, and stillness.
She took the disc out of her pocket and looked at it. It was too dark to see
any details, not that there was anything on it she hadn’t already memorized. A
little light shone in from the moon outside, but the shadows in the corners
were deep, like there was something hidden there eating up the light. She
rubbed the side of the disc with her thumb, feeling the bumps of the letters. If
she didn’t know they were there, they’d be scarcely noticeable.
Afton Robotics, LLC. She’d seen pictures of William Afton, the man who
Dave had been: pictures of him with her father, smiling and laughing. But she
only remembered him as the man in the rabbit suit. My father must have
trusted him. He must not have suspected. He would never have built a second
restaurant with the man who murdered one of his children. But those
creatures—he had to have known they were buried beneath our house. Charlie
clenched her teeth, stifling a sudden delirious urge to smile. “Of course there
was a secret robot graveyard under my bedroom,” she murmured. “Of course
that’s where it would be.” She covered her face in her hands. All the threads
were tangling in her mind.

She pictured it unwillingly. The creature in the doorway. At first he was a
shadow, blocking the light, then he was a man in a rabbit suit, and even then
it didn’t occur to Charlie to be afraid. She knew this rabbit. Sammy hadn’t
even noticed him yet. He continued to play with his toy truck, running it back
and forth hypnotically across the floor. Charlie stared up at the thing in the
doorway, and a coldness began to gather in the pit of her stomach. This was
not the rabbit she knew. Its eyes shifted back and forth subtly between the
twins, taking its time: making its choice. When the eyes settled on Charlie, the
cold feeling spread all through her, then he looked away again, at Sammy,
who still hadn’t turned around. Then a sudden movement, and the costumes
on their hangers all leaped together, covering her so she couldn’t see. She
heard the toy truck hit the ground and spin in place for a moment, then
everything was still.
She was alone, a vital part of her cut away.
Charlie sat up, shaking herself to try and set the memories loose. She’d
grown accustomed to sharing a room with Jessica. It was a long time since
she’d been completely alone with her thoughts in the dark.
“I forgot how hard it is to be quiet,” she whispered, her voice as soft as
breath. She glared down at the strange disc in her hand, as if it was bringing
these visions on her. She tossed it across the room and into a dark corner, out
of sight.
Then she heard it. Something was inside the house.
Whatever it was, it was being cautious. She heard creaks from somewhere
distant, but they were slow and muted. Silence followed; whatever moved
was hoping the sound would be forgotten. Charlie crept from the bed and
approached the door carefully, pushing it farther open and leaning out
agonizingly slowly, until she could see deep into the living room, and the
dining room beyond that. A part of her kept returning to the thought that she
was in someone else’s house, that she was the intruder.
“Hello?” she called, almost hoping for an answer, even an angry one
demanding to know what she was doing there. Maybe John would answer,
happy to have found her, and come running from the darkness.
Only silence returned her call, but Charlie knew she wasn’t alone anymore.
Her eyes widened, her heartbeat drumming in her throat, making it hard to
breathe. She took careful steps over the stone tiles, down the short hall to just
outside the living room, where she stood to listen again. A clock chimed the
hours in a different room. Charlie walked to the edge of the living room and
stopped again. She could see most of the house from here, and she scanned
the area for anything out of place. Doorways surrounded her like gaping
mouths, breathing night air from the windows she’d opened.
There was a long hall leading from the farthest corner of the living room to
a different bedroom. It was one of the few places she didn’t have a clear line

of sight into. She edged around the leather sofa in front of her and across the
circular rug that filled the room. As she walked, she could see more of the hall
slowly revealing itself. It stretched out, farther and farther.
Charlie stopped midstep. She could see into the far bedroom now. It was
full of windows and blue moonlight, and there was something obstructing her
view, something she hadn’t noticed while she was moving. Now its silhouette
was unmistakable. Charlie carefully looked around again, her eyes adjusting
to her surroundings. To her right, another large door led down a single step
and into the large den. Bookcases stretched up to the ceiling, and a putrid air
emanated from inside. Beyond the bookcases was another shadow that didn’t
belong. Charlie bumped into a lamp and startled. She hadn’t even realized she
was moving backward.
The front door was open wide. Charlie nearly bolted toward it to escape,
but she stopped herself. She took a breath and stepped softly back toward the
bedroom, checking over her shoulder as she went. She went back to the bed,
sliding her bare feet on the wood floor so her steps would make no sound, and
eased herself slowly onto the mattress, cautious to keep the springs from
creaking. Charlie lay back, closed her eyes, and waited.
Her eyes twitched, every instinct she had shouting the same thing: Open
your eyes! Run! Charlie breathed steadily in and out, trying to make her body
go limp, trying to look asleep. Something is moving. She counted the steps.
One, two, one, two—no. They were slightly asynchronous: there was more
than one of them. Two, maybe all three, were inside the house. One set of
footsteps passed her door, and she let her eyes flutter open for an instant, just
in time to see an indistinct shadow cross before the crack in the door.
Another set of footsteps sounded like they were in the side hallway, while a
third …
She screwed her eyes shut tight. The steps fell still outside her door. Her
breath was shuddering; she almost hiccupped as she inhaled and she bit her
lips together. The door was gliding open. Her lungs tightened, pressing her for
air, but she refused. She hung on to that single breath as if it were the last one
she’d ever get. I’ll find you. She clenched her fists, determined to remain still.
The footsteps were through the door now, crossing the floor with a heavy
tread. She kept still. The air above her stirred, and through her closed eyelids,
the darkness grew even darker. Charlie opened her eyes, and breathed in.
The space above her was empty; nothing was looking down at her.
She turned her head slowly, peering into the open hall to her left. The
noises had all stopped.
Suddenly the blankets were yanked off her, pulled from the foot of the bed.
Charlie shot up and finally saw what had come for her. An enormous head
rested its chin at her feet. It looked like something from a carnival game, its
eyes rolling from side to side, clicking each time they moved. A pitch-black

top hat was perched on its head, cocked slightly to one side, and the giant
cheeks and button nose gave him away immediately. Freddy.
It was no longer the sleek and featureless head she had unearthed in the
abandoned lot. His head was lively and full of movement, covered in wavy
brown fur and bouncy cheeks. Yet there was something disjointed about it all,
as though every part of his face was moving independently.
Charlie fought to remain still, but her body was acting of its own accord,
squirming and pulling to get away from the mouth opening up toward her.
Freddy’s face slid across the bed like a python. His head lost its shape as it
folded outward, taking hold of her feet and beginning to swallow, moving
slowly upward as she fought not to scream or fight. A giant arm reached up
and clapped the side of the bed, shaking the room as it anchored itself and
pulled the giant torso higher. Freddy’s jaw made motions of chewing as the
distorted face pulled Charlie’s legs inside it. His cheeks and chin dislocating
further. It no longer resembled a living thing.
Panic took hold and Charlie screamed. She clenched her fists, but there was
no longer a face to strike. There was only a squeezing and spiraling vortex of
fur, teeth, and wire. Before she could struggle further, her arms were pinned
to her side, trapped inside the thing. Only her head remained free. She gasped
for a last breath, then was violently scooped up, consumed by the creature.
* * *
Clay Burke stopped the car without slowing down. The brakes screeched as
they fishtailed in the dirt. John was out of the car before Clay had gotten it
under control, running up the hill toward the house.
“Around back,” Clay said, catching up to John, his voice low and tight.
They made their way around the house to the back door, which was gaping
open. “Check that way.” Clay gestured to his right as he ran left. John stuck
close to the wall, peering into doorways as he passed them.
“Charlie!” he cried.
“Charlie!” Clay echoed, entering the master bedroom.
“CHARLIE!” John ran from room to room, moving faster. “CHARLIE!”
He arrived at the front door. He swung it wide open and stepped outside, half
expecting to catch someone fleeing the scene.
“Clay, did you find her?” he shouted as he raced back inside.
Clay walked briskly back into the living room, shaking his head. “No, but
she was here. The bed was unmade and there was dirt all over the floor. And
these …” He held up Charlie’s sneakers. John nodded grimly, only now
noticing the trails of dirt strewn through the house. He glanced again to the
front door.
“She’s gone,” John said, his voice catching in his throat. He looked at the
older man. “Now what?” he asked.

Clay just stared at the floor, and said nothing.

Clay!” John repeated. His alarm grew as the older man stared down at the
dirty floorboards, apparently lost in thought. John put a hand on his arm, and
Clay startled. He looked as if just he’d realized he wasn’t alone. “We have to
find her,” John said urgently.
Clay nodded, springing back to life. He broke into a run and John followed
close at heel, barely making it into the passenger’s seat before Clay started the
engine and took off, speeding down the half-made road.
“Where are we going?” John shouted. He was still struggling to close the
door against the wind. It flapped like a massive wing, pulling against him as
Clay swerved down the hill. Finally John yanked it shut.
“I don’t know,” Clay said grimly. “But we know about how far they can
get.” He drove wildly back down the hill and out to the main road, flipping on
his police lights. They went less than a mile before he turned quickly onto a
small, unpaved lane.
John’s shoulder banged hard against the door. He gripped his seat belt as
they barreled down the trail, high brush scraping the sides of the car and
thumping the windshield.
“They have to come through here,” Clay said. “This field is right in the
middle of the path between that house and the next area on the map. We just
have to wait for them.” He stopped the car abruptly and John jerked forward.
Together they got out of the car. Clay had stopped at the edge of an open
field. There were trees scattered here and there, and the grass was tall, but
there were no crops, and no livestock grazed. John walked out into the open,
watching the grass ripple like water in the wind.
“You really think they’ll come by here?” John asked.

“If they keep moving the direction they’ve been going,” Clay said. “They
have to.”
Long minutes passed. John paced back and forth in front of the car. Clay
positioned himself closer to the middle of the field, ready to run in any
direction at a moment’s notice.
“They should have been here by now,” John said. “Something’s wrong.”
He glanced at Clay, who nodded.
The sound of a car engine rose from the distance, growing louder. They
both froze. Whoever it was, they were coming fast; John could hear branches
whipping against the car’s body in an irregular percussion. After a few
seconds the car shot out from the lane and screeched to a halt.
“Jessica.” John walked toward the car.
“Where’s Charlie?” Jessica asked, stepping out onto the grass.
“How did you find us?” Clay demanded.
“I called her,” John put in quickly. “From the restaurant, right after I talked
to you.”
“I’ve been driving all over the place. I’m lucky I found you. Why are we
stopped here?”
“Their route crosses through here,” John explained, but she looked
skeptical.
“What does that mean? How do you know?”
John glanced at Clay, neither of them looking confident.
“They have her already, right?” Jessica said. “So why would they keep
going toward her dorm?” Clay closed his eyes, putting a hand to his temples.
“They wouldn’t,” he said. He looked up at the sky, the wind battering
across his upturned face with a raw touch.
“So they could be going anywhere now,” Jessica added.
“We can’t predict what they’re doing anymore,” John said. “They got what
they wanted.”
“And she wanted this? She planned this?” Jessica said, her voice rising.
“What’s wrong with you, Charlie?” She turned back to John. “They might not
have even wanted her. It could have been anyone! So why did she have to go
up there, like some kind of—of—”
“Sacrifice,” John said quietly.
“She can’t be dead,” Jessica muttered, her voice shaky even under her
breath.
“We can’t think like that,” John said sternly.
“We’ll form a perimeter,” Clay said. “Jessica, you and John take your car
and start driving that way.” He pointed. “I’ll loop back the other direction.
We’ll make circles and hope we catch them. I can’t think of any other way.”
He looked at the teenagers helplessly. No one moved, despite Clay’s new
plan. John could feel it in the air; they had all surrendered. “I don’t know

what else to do.” Clay’s voice had lost its strength.
“I might,” John said abruptly, the idea forming even as he spoke. “Maybe
we can ask them.”
“You want to ask them?” Jessica said sarcastically. “Let’s call them and
leave a message. ‘Please call us back with your murderous plot at your
earliest convenience!’”
“Exactly,” John said. “Clay, the mascots from Freddy’s: Are they all gone?
When you say you threw them out, what does that mean? Can we get access
to them?” He turned to Jessica. “They helped us before, or at least they tried
to, once they stopped trying to kill us. They might know something, I don’t
know, even if they’re on a scrap heap somewhere, there must be something
left. Clay?”
Clay had turned his face up to the sky again. Jessica gave him a sharp look.
“You know, don’t you?” she said. “You know where they are.”
Clay sighed. “Yeah, I know where they are.” He hesitated. “I couldn’t let
them be dismantled,” he went on. “Not knowing what they are, who they had
been. And I didn’t dare let them be casually tossed out, considering what
they’re capable of doing.” Jessica opened her mouth, about to ask a question,
then stopped herself. “I … I kept them,” Clay said. There was a rare note of
uncertainty in his voice.
“You what?” John stepped forward, suddenly on guard.
“I kept them. All of them. I don’t know about asking them any questions,
though. Ever since that night, they haven’t moved an inch. They’re broken, or
at least they’re doing a good impression of it. They’ve been sitting in my
basement for over a year now. I’ve been careful to leave them alone. It just
seemed like they shouldn’t be disturbed.”
“Well, we have to disturb them,” Jessica said. “We have to try to find
Charlie.”
John scarcely heard her. He was staring searchingly at Clay.
“Come on,” Clay said. He set off toward his car with a heavy look, as if
something had just been taken from him.
John and Jessica exchanged a glance, then followed. Before they reached
Jessica’s car, Clay was already heading toward the main road. Jessica stepped
on the gas, catching up just as Clay made a sharp right turn.
They didn’t speak. Jessica was intent on the road, and John was slouched in
his seat, thinking things through. Ahead of them, Clay had switched on his
flashing lights, though he left off the siren.
John stared into the darkness as they drove. Maybe he’d spot Charlie just
by chance. He kept his hand loose on the door handle, ready to jump out, to
run and save her. But there were only endless trees, scattered with the orange
windows of distant houses, which hung on the hills like Christmas lights.
“We’re here,” Jessica said, sooner than John had expected.

John pushed himself upright and peered out the window.
She made a left turn and slowed the car down, and as she did John
recognized it. A few yards ahead was Carlton’s house, surrounded by a cove
of trees. Clay pulled into the driveway and they came in behind him. Jessica
stopped the car inches from his bumper.
Clay jangled his keys nervously as they approached the house; he looked
like an altered man, no longer the assured police chief in control of every
situation. He unlocked the door, but John hung back. He wanted Clay to go in
first.
Clay led them into the living room, and Jessica made a noise of surprise.
Clay gave her a sheepish look. “Sorry for the mess,” he said.
John glanced around. The room was mostly the same as he remembered,
full of couches and chairs all fanned around a fireplace. But both couches
were piled with open files and stacks of newspapers, and what looked like
dirty laundry. Six coffee mugs sat crowded together on a single end table.
John’s heart sank as he noticed two bottles of whiskey lying on their sides
between an armchair and the hearth. He cast his eyes around quickly, spotting
two more. One had rolled under a couch; the other was still half-full, sitting
beside a glass with a distinct yellow tinge. John snuck a look at Jessica, who
bit her lip.
“What happened here?” she asked.
“Betty left,” Clay said shortly.
“Oh.”
“I’m sorry,” John offered. Clay waved a hand at him, staving off further
attempts at comfort. He cleared his throat.
“She was right, I guess. Or at least she did what was right for her.” He
forced a laugh and gestured at the mess that surrounded him. “We all do what
we have to do.” He sat down in a green armchair, the only seat completely
free of paperwork and debris, and shook his head.
“Can I move these?” John asked, pointing to the papers that filled the
couch opposite Clay. Clay didn’t respond, so John stacked them up and put
them to one side, careful not to let anything fall. He sat, and after a moment
so did Jessica, though she eyed the couch as if she thought it might be
carrying the plague.
“Clay—” John started, but the older man started talking again, as if he’d
never stopped.
“After all of you left—after all of you were safe—I went back for them.
Betty and I had decided it might be a good time for Carlton to get out of town
for a while, so she took him to stay with her sister for a few weeks. To be
honest, I don’t remember if she suggested it, or if it was me who put the idea
in her mind. But as soon as I saw them pull down the driveway and out of
sight, I got to work.

“Freddy’s was locked up. They’d taken away Officer Dunn’s body and
completed their search, under my careful guidance, of course. They took
some samples, but nothing else had been removed from the premises, not yet.
They were waiting on me to give the go-ahead. The place wasn’t even under
guard—after all, there was nothing dangerous inside, right? So, I waited for
things to calm down. Then I drove to St. George and rented a U-Haul.
“It was raining when I picked up the truck, and by the time I got to
Freddy’s there was a full-on thunderstorm, even though the forecast had been
clear. I had keys this time; all the locks were police-issue now, so I just
walked right into the place. I knew where I would find them—or at least, I
knew where I’d left them and prayed they were still here. They were all piled
together in that room with the little stage.”
“Pirate’s Cove,” Jessica said, her voice barely a whisper.
“I half expected them to be gone, but they were sitting patiently, like they’d
been waiting for me. They’re immense, you know. Hundreds of pounds of
metal and whatever else was in there, so I had to drag them one by one. I
loaded them all up eventually. I figured I would bring them down through the
storm cellar, but when I got back home the lights were on and Betty’s car was
in the driveway. She’d come back from her trip early, it seemed.”
“What did you do?” Jessica asked. She was hunched over, her chin in her
palms. John shook his head, mildly amused. She was enjoying the story.
“I waited across the street. I watched the lights, staking out my own house.
When the last light went out, I pulled into the driveway and started dragging
those things again, lowering them down into the cellar one by one. I drove the
truck back to St. George and came back home, all without anyone seeing me.
It would have never worked if I hadn’t had the cover of thunder and lightning
to mask what I was doing. When I came in, I was soaking wet and my whole
body ached. All I wanted was to go upstairs to bed, next to my wife …” He
cleared his throat. “But I didn’t dare. I took a blanket and I slept in front of
the basement door, just in case something tried to come out.”
“Did it?” Jessica asked. Clay shook his head slowly back and forth, like it
had taken on extra weight.
“In the morning, they were exactly the way I’d left them. Every night after
that, I went down there when Betty was asleep. I watched them, sometimes I
even … talked to them, trying to provoke them somehow. I wanted to make
sure they weren’t going to kill us in our sleep. I went back over the case files,
trying to figure out how we’d missed Afton. How had he managed to come
back without anyone suspecting?
“Betty could tell something was wrong. A few weeks later, she woke up
and came looking for me—she found me, and them.” Burke closed his eyes.
“I don’t remember exactly how the conversation went, but the next morning
she was gone again, and this time she didn’t come back.”

John shifted on the couch restlessly. “They haven’t moved since then?”
“They’re just sitting there like broken dolls. I don’t even think about them
anymore.”
“Clay, Charlie’s in danger,” John said, standing. “We have to go see them.”
Clay nodded. “Well, then let’s go see them.” He stood and gestured toward
the kitchen.
The last time John had stood in the Burkes’ kitchen was the morning after
they’d all escaped from Freddy’s. Clay had been making pancakes and
kidding around. Betty, Carlton’s mother, was sitting next to her son as if she
were afraid to leave his side. They were all giddy with relief that the ordeal
was over, but John could tell that each of them, in their own particular ways,
was struggling with other emotions, too. Someone might stop talking in
midsentence, forgetting the rest, or stare for several moments at the empty air
in front of them. They were all just barely recovering. But the kitchen had
been bright. Light sparkled off the counters, and the smells of coffee and
pancakes were reassuring, a connection to reality.
Now, John was struck hard by the contrast. There was a rank smell, and he
could see immediately what it was: the counters and table were strewn with
dirty dishes, all crusted with leftover meals. Most had scarcely been eaten.
There were two more empty bottles in the kitchen sink.
Clay opened the door to what looked like a closet, but turned out to be the
basement steps. He flipped a light switch, illuminating a dim bulb right above
the stairs, and motioned them in. Jessica started forward, but John put a hand
lightly on her arm, stopping her. Clay went first, leading their descent, and
John followed, guiding Jessica behind him.
The stairs were narrow and a little too steep. Each time John stepped down
he felt a slight lurch, his body unprepared for the distance. Two steps down
the air changed: it was damp and moldy.
“Watch out for that one,” Clay said. John looked down to see that one of
the boards was missing. He stepped over it carefully and turned, offering
Jessica a hand as she made the awkward jump. “One of many things that’s on
my to-do list,” Clay said offhandedly.
The basement itself was unfinished. The floor and walls were nothing but
the unpainted inner surface of the foundation. Clay gestured to a dark corner
where the boiler lurked heavily. Jessica gasped.
They were all there, lined up in a row against the wall. At the end of the
line, Bonnie slumped against the boiler. The gigantic rabbit’s blue fur was
stained and matted, and his long ears drooped forward, almost obscuring his
wide, square face. He still held a red bass guitar in one enormous hand,
though it was battered and broken. Half of his bright red bow tie had torn off,
giving his face a lopsided look. Beside him sat Freddy Fazbear. His top hat
and matching black bow tie were undamaged, their material only a little

scuffed. And though his brown fur was bedraggled, he still smiled for an
absent audience. His blue eyes were wide and his eyebrows raised, like
something exciting was about to happen. His microphone was missing, and he
held his arms out stiffly before him, grasping at nothing. Chica leaned against
Freddy, her head drooping to the side. The weight of her yellow body—
inexplicably covered in fur, not feathers—seemed to rest entirely on him. Her
long, orange chicken legs were splayed out in front of her, and for the first
time John noticed the silver talons on her feet, inches long and sharp as
knives. The bib she always wore had been torn. It had read: LET’S EAT!!!, but it
was faded by time, along with the damp and mildew of the basement.
John squinted at her. Something else was missing.
“The cupcake,” Jessica said, echoing his thoughts.
Then he spotted it. “There on the floor,” he said. It was sitting alone beside
Chica, almost huddled, its evil grin maniacal and pathetic.
Set a little apart from the three was the yellow Freddy, the one that had
saved all their lives. He looked like Freddy Fazbear, and yet he did not. There
was something different about him besides the color, but if someone had
asked John what it was, he knew he wouldn’t be able to name it. Jessica and
John looked at it for a long moment. John felt a sense of quiet awe as he
studied the yellow bear. I never got to thank you, he wanted to say. But he
found he was too scared to approach it.
“Where’s—” Jessica started, then cut herself off. She pointed to the corner
where Foxy was propped against the wall, clothed in shadows but still visible.
John knew what he would see: a robotic skeleton covered with dark red fur,
but only from the knees up. It had been tattered even when the restaurant was
open. Foxy had his own stage in Pirate’s Cove. As John peered at him now, he
thought he could see more places where the fur covering was ripped, and the
metal frame showed through. Foxy’s eye patch was still fixed in place above
his eye. While one hand drooped at his side, the arm with the large, sharpened
hook was raised above his head, poised for a downward slash.
“Is this how you left them?” John asked.
“Yep. Exactly how I left them,” Clay answered, but he sounded suspicious
of his own words.
Jessica approached Bonnie cautiously and crouched down to make her eyes
level with the enormous rabbit. “Are you in there?” she whispered. There was
no response. Jessica reached out slowly to touch his face. John watched,
tensing, but as Jessica petted the rabbit, not even dust stirred in the mildewed
basement. Finally she straightened and took a step back, then looked
helplessly at John. “There’s nothing—”
“Shh,” he interrupted. A noise caught his attention.
“What is it?”
John bent his head, craning closer to the sound, though he couldn’t tell

exactly where it was coming from. It was like a voice on the wind, words
swept away before he could catch them, so that he couldn’t be sure it was a
voice at all. “Is anyone … here?” he murmured. He looked at Freddy Fazbear,
but as he tried to focus his attention, the sound situated itself. He turned to the
yellow Freddy suit.
“You’re here, aren’t you?” he asked the bear. He went to the animatronic
and crouched in front of it, but he didn’t try to touch it. John looked into its
shining eyes, searching for any of the spark of life he had seen that night,
when the golden bear entered the room and they all knew as irrefutable fact
that Michael, their childhood friend, was inside. John couldn’t remember
precisely how that knowledge had come: there was nothing behind the plastic
eyes, nothing different physically. It was just pure certainty. He closed his
eyes, trying to call it back. Maybe by recalling that essence of Michael, he
could conjure him again. But he couldn’t catch it, couldn’t sense the presence
of his friend as he had that night.
John opened his eyes and looked at all the animatronics one by one,
remembering them alive and mobile. Once, the children stolen by William
Afton had watched him back from inside. Were they still inside now,
dormant? It was horrible to think of them moldering down here, staring into
the darkness.
Something flickered in the yellow bear’s eye, almost imperceptibly, and
John drew in a sharp breath. He glanced behind, checking for a light that
might have glanced off the hard plastic surface, but there was no obvious
source. Come back, he pled silently, hoping to see the spark again.
“John.” Jessica’s voice pulled him back to reality. “John, I’m not sure that
this was a good idea.” He turned toward her voice, then stood, his legs
cramping. How long had he been there, staring into the blind eyes of the
mascot?
“I think there’s still someone in there,” he said slowly.
“Maybe so, but this doesn’t feel right.” She looked down from John toward
the suits again.
Their heads had moved; they tilted up unnaturally, facing John and Jessica.
Jessica screamed and John heard himself shout something unintelligible,
leaping back as if he’d been stung. They were all looking directly at him.
John took three experimental steps to the left, and they appeared to track him:
their eyes stayed fixed on him, and him alone.
Clay had grabbed a shovel and was holding it like a baseball bat, ready to
strike. “I think it’s time to go.” He stepped forward.
“Stop, it’s okay!” John exclaimed. “They know that we aren’t enemies.
We’re here because we need their help.” John opened his palms toward the
creatures.
Clay lowered the shovel, though he kept it in his hand. John looked at

Jessica, who nodded rapidly.
John turned back to the mascots. “We’re here because we need your help,”
he said again. They gazed back at him blankly. “Remember me?” he asked
awkwardly. They continued to stare, as frozen in their new poses as they’d
been before. “Please listen,” he went on. “Charlie, you remember her, right?
You must. She’s been taken by … creatures like you, but not like you.” He
glanced at Jessica, but she was watching anxiously, trusting this to him.
“They were animatronic suits, buried under Charlie’s house. We don’t
know why they were there.” He took a deep breath. “We don’t think they
were built by Henry; we think they were built by William Afton.”
As soon as John said the name, the robots all began to shudder, convulsing
where they sat. It was as if their machinery was being jump-started by a
current too powerful for their systems to absorb.
“John!” Jessica cried. Clay stepped forward and grabbed John by the
shoulder.
“We have to get out of here,” Jessica said urgently. The mascots were
seizing wildly, their arms and legs jerking. Their heads banged against the
back wall with painful clanks. John stood rooted to the spot, torn between the
impulse to run to them, to try and help, and the urge to run away.
“Go, now!” Clay shouted over the noise, pulling John backward. They
made their way back up the basement stairs, Clay followed behind with the
shovel raised defensively. John watched the mascots convulsing on the
ground until they were out of sight.
“We need your help to find Charlie!” he shouted one last time, as Clay
slammed the basement door and snapped three shiny new deadbolts shut.
“Come on,” Clay said. They followed him, chased by hideous clanking and
banging noises, only slightly muffled by the floor beneath. He led them back
through the living room to a small study branching off from it, where he shut
the door and bolted it.
“They’re coming up,” John said, pacing and watching the ground beneath
his feet. Metal ground against metal; something crashed like it was slammed
against the wall. The echo reverberated through the floor.
“Block the door,” Clay ordered, grabbing one side of the desk in the corner.
John grabbed the other side as Jessica cleared a path for them, yanking two
chairs and a lamp out of the way. They dropped it in front of the door as,
beneath them, something scraped across the concrete like it was being
dragged.
Heavy footsteps shook the foundation of the house. The high-pitched whine
of malfunctioning electronics filled the air, almost too high to hear. Jessica
rubbed her ears. “Are they coming for us?”
“No. I mean, I don’t think so,” John said. He looked to Clay for
reassurance, but Clay’s eyes were on the door. The whine intensified and

Jessica clapped her hands over her ears. The footsteps grew louder. There was
a noise like cracking wood.
“At the door,” Clay whispered. There was a loud thud, and then another.
John, Jessica, and Clay sank down behind the desk, as if it would better hide
them. Another thud resounded, then a sound of splintering wood. The
earthshaking footsteps came closer. John tried to count them, to see if the
creatures were all together, but there was too much overlap. They layered one
over another, rattling his teeth and shaking through his chest. It felt like the
sound alone might break him to pieces.
Then, quickly, the footsteps faded and were gone. For a long moment no
one moved. John gasped to breathe, realizing only now that he’d been holding
his breath. He looked at the others. Jessica’s eyes were closed, and she
gripped her hands together so tightly that her fingertips had gone white. John
reached out and touched her shoulder and she jumped, her eyes flying open.
Clay was already standing, tugging at the desk. “Come on, John,” he said.
“Help me get this out of the way.”
“Right,” he said unsteadily. Together they shoved it aside and hurried out
into the hall. The front door stood wide open to the night. John rushed out to
look.
The grass outside had been torn up where the mascots shuffled through it.
The tracks were obvious and easy to follow, leading straight into the woods.
John broke into a run, chasing after them, Clay and Jessica at his heels. When
they reached the cover of trees they slowed. In the distance, John saw a blur
of movement for only an instant, and he motioned the others to hold back.
They would follow, but they didn’t dare be seen by whatever was leading the
way.

The world thundered around Charlie, shaking her rhythmically back and
forth, strange objects digging harder into her each time she was jostled.
Charlie opened her eyes, and remembered where she was. Or rather, what she
was inside. The awful image of the malformed Freddy sucking her into its
mouth like some kind of snake hit her, and she closed her eyes again, biting
her lips together so that she wouldn’t scream. The thuds were footsteps, she
realized: the animatronics were on the move.
Her head throbbed with each blow, making it hard to think straight. I must
have been knocked unconscious when it threw me in here, she thought. The
torso of the thing was connected to the head by a wide neck, which was
almost level with her own, though its head stretched up another foot above
her. It was like looking at the inside of a mask: the hollow of a protruding
snout, the blank spheres that were the backs of the eyes. When she carefully
tilted her head up, she could even see the bolt that attached the black top hat.
Charlie’s legs were cramped and bent at odd angles, wedged between
pieces of machinery. She must have been stuck this way for some time, but
she had no way of knowing how long. Her arms were constrained, suspended
away from her body into the arms of the suit. Her whole body was covered in
small points of pain, bruises and cuts from tiny pieces of plastic and metal
that deepened each time they banged against her. Charlie could feel blood
trickling down her skin in half a dozen places. She itched to wipe it away but
had no idea how much she could struggle without triggering the springs. Her
mind flashed to the first murder victim, the lacerations that covered his body
almost decoratively. She thought of Dave’s screams as he died, and the
bloated corpse beneath the stage at Pirate’s Cove. That can’t be me. I can’t die

like that!
Charlie had told Clay what she knew about the spring-lock suits. The
animatronic parts were either recoiled, making room for a person inside to use
it as a costume, or fully extended, so the mascot would work as a robot. But
that was what Charlie knew from Fredbear’s Family Diner—this creature was
different. She was inside a cavity made for a human being, but the suit was
moving with complete autonomy. Its insides were full of metal architecture
and wires, all except for the space that Charlie occupied.
The animatronic lurched unexpectedly to the side, and Charlie was
smacked against the jagged wall again with greater force. She cried out this
time, unable to help herself, but there was no break in Freddy’s stride. Either
the creature hadn’t heard, or it didn’t care. She clenched her teeth, trying to
quell the pounding in her head.
Where are we going? She craned her neck this way and that, looking
through the holes in the animatronic’s battered suit. There were only a few
holes, small and on either side of the thing’s torso. All she could make out
was the forest: trees rushing by in the darkness as they hurried to their
mysterious destination. Charlie sighed in frustration, tears welling up. Where
are you? Am I getting closer to you? Sammy, is it you?
She gave up looking for hints outside and stared straight ahead at the inside
of the suit. Stay calm, Aunt Jen’s voice said in her head. Always stay calm. It’s
the only way to keep your head clear. She stared up into the mask, at the
inside-out features of the twisted Freddy.
Suddenly, the blank spheres rolled back and the eyes flipped in, staring
straight down at her with an impassive, plastic gaze. Charlie screamed and
jerked back. Something behind her snapped, lashing a whiplike piece of metal
into her side. She froze in terror. No, please no. Nothing else triggered, and
after a moment she cautiously settled herself in place, trying not to meet the
shiny blue eyes above her. Her side where the piece of metal had hit her
shocked with pain each time she breathed. She wondered, alarmed, if a rib
had broken. Before she could be sure, the animatronic lurched to the side
again, and Charlie fell with it, hitting her head so hard that the blow
reverberated through her body. Her vision darkened, closing to a tunnel, and
as she faded into unconsciousness again, all she could see were Freddy’s
watching eyes.
* * *
John’s lungs were beginning to burn, his legs turning rubbery as they ran on
and on through the forest. They had been running for what felt like hours,
though he knew it couldn’t be. That was just his exhaustion playing tricks on
his mind. The trail had faded. When they entered the forest, the trees had been
their guide. They followed ripped, ragged bark and broken branches, and even

torn roots where massive, careless feet had stepped.
But the signs had grown farther between, then stopped entirely. Now John
ran on in the direction the creatures seemed to have been headed.
Truthfully, he might have been lost.
As he darted around trees, trekked up and down small hills, and stumbled
on uneven ground, John began to lose his sense of direction entirely. Ahead of
him, Jessica ran confidently onward. He followed, but for all he knew they
could be running in an endless circle.
Behind him, Clay’s steps were slowing, his breathing heavy. Jessica, a few
paces ahead, doubled back, jogging in place as she waited for them to catch
up.
“Come on, guys, we’re almost there!” she said energetically.
“Almost where?” John asked, struggling to keep his tone even.
“I’m just trying to be encouraging,” she said. “I was on my high school
cross-country team for three years.”
“Well, I was always more of a heavy-lifter, you know,” John panted,
suddenly defensive.
“Clay, come on, you can do it!” Jessica called. John glanced back. Clay had
stopped running and was doubled over with his hands on his knees, taking
gasping breaths. With relief, John slowed to a walk and turned back. Jessica
let out a frustrated sound and followed him to Clay.
“Are you all right?” John asked.
The older man nodded, waving him back. “Fine,” he said. “Go ahead, I’ll
catch up.”
“There’s nowhere to ‘go ahead’ to,” John said. “We’re running blind.
When’s the last time you saw tracks?”
“A while back,” Clay said, “but they were heading this way, and it’s all we
have to go on.”
“But it’s nothing to go on!” John’s voice rose in frustration. “There’s no
reason to think they went this way!”
“We’re losing them,” Jessica said urgently. She was still running in place,
her ponytail bouncing like a little nervous animal behind her. Clay shook his
head.
“No, we’ve already lost them.”
Jessica stopped running, but she kept shifting from one foot to the other.
“So now what?”
Something rustled in the trees ahead of them. Jessica grabbed John’s arm,
then released it quickly, looking embarrassed. The sound came again, and
John started toward it, raising a hand to signal the others to stay. He made his
way cautiously through the trees, glancing back once and noting that Jessica
and Clay were close behind, despite his attempt to keep them back.
A few feet farther on, the trees broke into an open field; they had reached

the far side of the woods. Jessica gasped, and a split second later John saw it.
Halfway across the clearing a figure stood in the darkness. It was almost
featureless and flat, scarcely distinct from the shadows. John squinted, trying
to get hold of the image, to assure himself he was really seeing it. Heavy,
black electrical wires stretched above the field like a canopy, but besides the
wires, the field was clear. Though it was dark, there was no way for them to
sneak closer to the figure without being seen.
So John straightened his shoulders and began to walk slowly and openly
toward it.
The field was untended, and tall grass brushed John’s knees as he walked.
Behind him, Jessica and Clay made rustling sounds with every step. The wind
whipped the grass against their legs, blowing more ferociously with each step
they took. Almost halfway across the field, John stopped, puzzled. The figure
was still there, but it seemed as far away from them as when they’d started.
He glanced back at Jessica.
“Is it moving?” she whispered. He nodded and started walking again, not
taking his eyes from the shadowy figure. “John, it looks like … Freddy?”
“I don’t know what it is,” John answered cautiously. “But I think it wants
us to follow.”
* * *
I can’t breathe. Charlie coughed and gagged, coming suddenly awake. She lay
on her back, dirt pouring down onto her. It filled her mouth, clogging her nose
and covering her eyes. She spat, shaking her head and blinking rapidly. She
tried to raise her hands but couldn’t move them. She remembered suddenly
that they were trapped inside the arms of the suit and would be mutilated if
she struggled to free them.
Buried alive! I’m being buried alive. She opened her mouth to scream and
more dirt fell in, hitting the back of her throat and making her gag again.
Charlie could feel her pulse in her throat, choking her from the inside as
surely as the dirt from outside. Her heart was beating too fast and she felt
lightheaded. She took faster breaths, trying in vain to fill her lungs, but she
only stirred up the dirt and inhaled it. She spat, gargling at the back of her
throat to catch it before she swallowed, and turned her head to the side, away
from the soil that fell like rain. She took a shuddering breath that shook her
chest, and then another. You’re hyperventilating, she told herself sternly. You
have to stop. You have to calm down. You need your head clear. The last
thought came in Aunt Jen’s voice. She stared at the now-familiar side of the
suit and took deep breaths, ignoring the dirt settling in her ear and sliding
down her neck, until her fluttering heart slowed, and she could breathe almost
normally again.
Charlie closed her eyes. You have to get your arms free. She concentrated

all her attention on her left arm. Her T-shirt left the skin of her arms bare
against the suit, so she could feel everything that touched her. With her eyes
still closed, Charlie began to draw a map. There’s something at the shoulder
joints on either side, and a space just below. Spikes in a line all the way down
to my elbow on the outside, and the inside has—what is that? She rocked her
arm slowly, gently, back and forth against the objects, trying to envision them.
They’re not spring locks. She froze, focusing again on the place where the
arm joined the torso. THOSE are spring locks. Okay, I’ll get to it. Hands. She
flexed her fingers slightly: the sleeves were wide, and her hands—which
reached roughly to the creature’s elbows—were less constrained than
anything else. She spat out dirt again, trying not to notice that it was still
pouring in steadily, piling up all around her. Breathe. While you still can. She
clenched her jaw, envisioning the sleeve that encased her arm, and slowly
began to work her way out of it. She dipped down her shoulder, rotated
forward, held her breath—and pulled her arm three inches out. Charlie let out
a shuddering sigh. Her shoulder was free of the spring locks. That was the
hardest part. The rest of my arm won’t touch them if I’m careful. She kept
going, avoiding the things she thought might snap or stab her. When she was
halfway out, her elbow at the shoulder seam, she twisted her arm too quickly
and heard a snap. She stared horrified at the suit’s shoulder, but it wasn’t the
spring lock. Something smaller inside had triggered, and now she could feel
the burn of a fresh cut. Okay. It’s okay. She got back to work.
Minutes later, her arm was free. She flexed it back and forth in the small
space, feeling a little like she had never had an arm before. Now the other
one. She wiped her face with her hand, smearing away the dirt, closed her
eyes, and began again with her right arm.
The second sleeve took less time to get out of, but fatigue and the growing
mounds of dirt around her made Charlie careless. Twice she triggered small
mechanisms that bruised her painfully, but didn’t break her skin. She yanked
herself free too fast, bumping the spring locks and only barely snatching her
hand away before they cracked open. The arm jumped and jolted as the
robotic skeleton inside it unfolded with a noise like firecrackers. Charlie
clutched her hand to her chest, cradling it against her pounding heart as she
watched. That could have been … It wasn’t. It wasn’t me. Focus. Legs.
Her legs weren’t pinned in place as her arms had been. They’d simply been
awkwardly positioned, wedged between metal rods that ran through the body
of the mascot. Without the weight of her body resting on them, she was able
to maneuver. Cautiously, Charlie lifted her right leg into the air, pulling it over
the rod and into the center of the torso. Nothing triggered, and she did the
same with her left.
Her limbs freed, Charlie looked down the length of the animatronic, at the
door to the chest cavity. The latch was on the outside, but these creatures were

old; their parts were rusted and weak. She reached out and put her hands
against the metal, feeling for springs and other devices. She couldn’t quite see
from where her head was stuck, and she couldn’t move down safely. Unless.
The dirt had piled up almost a foot on either side of her head, and it
covered the lower half of her body. Charlie abandoned the door momentarily,
and began to slowly move the dirt. She lifted her head slightly and brushed at
the mound with her hands, pushing soil into the space she left. She rocked her
body back and forth, using her hands to sweep dirt under her, until she lay on
it like a thin bed. It wouldn’t protect her from the suit if she triggered it, but it
would give her an extra cushion, make it slightly harder for her to jostle
something and be skewered alive. She glanced at the arm of the suit that had
been triggered, now filled with metal spines and hard plastic parts. A shiver
went down her back.
Now she inched down until she could see the chest plates, placed her hands
in the center, and began to push upward with all her might. After a moment
they came apart and a rush of dirt cascaded in. Charlie coughed and turned
her head, but she kept pushing as the dirt rained down on her. She managed to
get the plates a foot apart, then crouched beneath them and paused for a
moment. How deep am I? she thought for the first time. If she’d been buried
six feet down, she might be escaping only to suffocate in the home stretch.
What else am I going to do? Charlie closed her eyes, took a deep breath, and
held it. Then she pressed herself up to the doors and began to claw her way
out of the grave.
The dirt wasn’t packed tightly, but it still took effort: she scratched and
scraped at it with her bare hands, wishing for a tool as her fingernails split and
bled. As she hacked at the dirt, her lungs began to burn and clench, trying to
get her to breathe. She scrunched her face up as hard as she could and
scratched harder. Are you out there? I’m coming, but help me, please, I have
to get out of this. Please, I can’t die here, buried ali—
Her hand broke the surface, and she drew it back in shock. Air. She gasped
gratefully until she no longer felt starved of oxygen. Then she closed her eyes
and battered her fists at the tiny hole above her head, breaking the sides until
it was large enough to wriggle through. Charlie stood up, her feet still planted
in the chest cavity of the suit. There had been little more than a foot of dirt
covering her. She braced her feet on the half-open doors and clambered out of
the hole, hauling herself up. She collapsed beside it, shaking with exhaustion.
You’re not safe yet, she scolded herself. You have to get up. But she couldn’t
bring herself to move. She stared, horrified, at the hole she had escaped from,
her face wet with tears.
Time passed, minutes or hours; she lost track completely. Finally mustering
her strength, Charlie pushed herself up to a sitting position, wiping her face.
She couldn’t tell where she was, but the air was cool and still. She was

indoors, and somewhere in the distance was the sound of rushing water. With
the adrenaline gone, her head ached again, throbbing along with her heartbeat.
It wasn’t just her head—everything hurt. She was covered in bruises, her
clothing was stained with blood, and now that she wasn’t suffocating, she was
aware again of the stabbing sensation in her rib cage every time she inhaled.
Charlie prodded her ribs, trying to feel if anything seemed out of place. The
bruises were already brightly colored, especially where parts of the suit had
struck her, but nothing was broken.
Charlie stood up, the pain receding enough to at least move and get her
bearings. As she looked around, her blood went cold.
It was Freddy Fazbear’s Pizza.
It can’t be. The wave of panic rose again. She glanced around wildly,
backing up, away from the hole in the ground. The tables, the carousel in the
corner, the stage—the tablecloths are blue. “The tablecloths at Freddy’s
weren’t blue,” she said, but her relief was quickly washed away by confusion.
Then what is this place?
The dining room was larger than the one at Freddy’s, though there were
fewer tables. The floor was black and white tile, except for large patches
where the tiles were missing, revealing plots of packed dirt. It was oddly
incongruous with everything else, which looked finished and brand-new, if
dusty. As she turned to the opposite wall, she saw that she was being watched.
Large plastic eyes stared back from the dark, glaring down at Charlie,
seeming to identify her as an intruder. Fur and beaks and eyes stood poised
like a small army halfway up the wall.
For a long moment she stood stock-still, bracing herself. But the
animatronics didn’t move. Charlie took a small step to one side, then the
other; the eyes did not track her. The creatures looked forward, unseeing, at
their fixed points. Some of their faces were animals, and some seemed to be
painted like clowns. Others appeared disturbingly human. Charlie moved
closer and saw what it was they were perched on. All along the wall, arcade
games and carnival attractions were lined up, each with its guardian beast or a
giant face mounted on top. Their mouths were wide open, as if they were all
laughing and cheering some invisible spectacle. As Charlie peered through
the darkness, she saw that the animals were unnaturally posed, their bodies
twisted in ways no animal should be able to twist. She scanned the widemouthed faces again and shivered. With their bodies so torturously bent, they
looked like they were screaming in pain.
Charlie took deep breaths. As she calmed herself she realized that there was
music playing through the speakers overhead. It was quiet; familiar, but she
couldn’t name it.
She approached the nearest of the games. A massive, contorted birdlike
creature with a wide, curved beak presided over a large cabinet with a fake

pond. Rows of ducks sat still in paper water, waiting for rubber balls to knock
them down. Charlie looked up again at the creature perched on top of the
game. Its wings stretched wide, and its head was thrown upward in the midst
of an elaborate dance. It cast a shadow in front of the game, right where the
player would stand. Charlie turned, not stepping any closer. Besides the duck
pond, there were three arcade consoles lined up next to one another, their
screens dusty. Three large chimpanzees squatted atop them, the tips of their
toes gripping the edges above the screen. Their arms were raised, frozen in
motion, and their teeth were bared in mirth, rage, or fear. Charlie stared for a
moment at the teeth; they were long and yellow.
Something about the arcade games nagged at her. She looked them up and
down carefully, but nothing tripped her memory. None were turned on, and
none of them were games she had ever seen before. She wiped the dust from
the screen of the central console, revealing a glossy black screen. Her face,
distorted in the curved glass, showed only a little bruising and a few visible
cuts. Charlie self-consciously smoothed her hair.
Wait. At Freddy’s Pizza, ghostly images had been burned into the arcade
screens after years of play. She pressed a couple of buttons experimentally.
They were stiff and shiny—untouched.
“That’s why it feels so empty,” she said to the chimp above her. “No one’s
ever been here, have they?” The great ape didn’t respond. Charlie glanced
around. There was a doorway to her left, the bluish glow of an unseen black
light emanating from the room beyond. Charlie went toward the light, through
the door, and into another room of games and attractions. Here, too, they were
all guarded by mascots, some more identifiable than others. Charlie staggered
for a moment and put her hand on her forehead. “Strange,” she whispered,
regaining her balance. She looked back the way she’d come. It must be the
light making me dizzy, she thought.
“Hello?” someone called faintly in the distance. Charlie whirled around as
if someone had shouted in her ear. She held her breath, waiting for it to come
again. The voice had been high and scared, a child. The sudden impression of
life in this place shook her, as if waking her from a dream.
“Hello!” she called back. “Hello, are you all right? I won’t hurt you.” She
glanced around the room. The sound of rushing water was louder here,
making it hard to judge how far away the voice had come from. She moved
quickly through the room, ignoring the wide-eyed creatures and the strange
and garish games. A simple, skirted table in the corner caught her attention,
and she went to it swiftly. Charlie crouched down, careful to keep her
balance, and lifted the cloth. Eyes stared back at her and she startled, then
steadied herself.
“It’s okay,” she whispered, flipping the cloth up over the table. The
glimmer of the eyes faded with the rush of light. There was no one there after all.
Charlie put her hands on her forehead and pressed hard for a moment,
trying to ward off the growing pain in her temples.
She went through another door, now unsure which way she’d come from,
and discovered the source of the running water. Springing from the center of
the wall to her left was a waterfall. It cascaded down over a rock face
protruding several feet out, and joined with a riverbed below. The water
rushed from a wide pipe only partly concealed by the rock. The stream below
was maybe three feet wide. It crossed the room, splitting the floor in two, and
disappeared into the open mouth of a cave.
Charlie watched it for a moment, mesmerized by the water. After a
moment, she noticed a narrow gap in the rock face behind the waterfall, just
big enough for a person to walk through. “Hello?” Charlie called again, but
only halfheartedly; here the white noise of the water was louder than
anywhere else. She realized after a second that it was a recording,
overpowering the sound of the actual water.
She surveyed the rest of the room: except for the waterfall and the little
river it was empty, but she noticed the floor had a gray border. No, it’s a path.
It was narrower than a sidewalk, paved with square gray cobblestones. It ran
alongside the curved wall, tracing the way to the waterfall, and led through a
narrow passage under the fall itself. Charlie crouched down to touch the
stones: they felt like hard plastic given a rough finish. The path was likely
there for a time when the place would be filled with other attractions; she
could probably just walk straight across the room. Probably.
Charlie stepped onto the cobblestones carefully, expecting them to give
way under her weight, but they held. The manufactured coarseness of the
rocks’ surface was sharp—it hurt a little to walk on it. Charlie dutifully
followed the walkway, keeping close to the wall. She had a vague sense that
stepping off onto the open floor might be dangerous.
When she reached the waterfall, she went to the gap and gingerly touched
the rock surface. It was the same plastic as the cobblestones. Like the path,
the cliff was hard plastic, solid, but because it looked like rocks it felt
insubstantial when she touched it. Charlie took her hands away and wiped
them on her jeans. She stepped carefully sideways, scooting through the hole
behind the waterfall. The cavern was only a few feet long, but she stopped for
a moment at the center. She felt trapped in the darkness, though she could see
light on either side. Trapped. Her chest tightened, and she screwed her eyes
shut. Calm down. Focus on what’s around you, she thought. Charlie took a
long, steadying breath and listened.
Standing beneath the waterfall, the tape recording was muffled. She
thought she could hear the water itself, rushing over her head and spilling
down in front of her, though she couldn’t see it. There was something else as

well, quiet but distinct. From above her, or maybe behind, Charlie could hear
the cranking of gears. A machine was churning the water, keeping it flowing
in a giant cycle, making the whole thing work. The sound of the machine at
work calmed her; the rising panic subsided, and she opened her eyes.
She took another sideways step, moving closer to the light, and stubbed her
toe on something hard. A shock of pain jolted her. The object tipped over,
making a sloshing sound as it fell. Grinding her teeth, she waited a moment
for her toe to stop hurting, then maneuvered herself into a crouch. It was a
fuel can. For the waterfall, she realized as the machinery ground on overhead.
There were several more, all neatly arranged along the wall, but this one had
been in the middle of the path. If she had been going faster, she would have
fallen over it. Charlie set it firmly beside the others, and stepped quickly into
the other half of the room.
“Hello?” The voice again, this time a little louder. Charlie stood up straight,
immediately on alert. It had come from ahead. She didn’t respond this time
but moved carefully toward it, staying on the path and keeping close to the
wall.
The hallway opened out into another room. The lights were dimmer here.
In the corner opposite Charlie was a small carousel, but there seemed to be
little else. Charlie scanned the room, and then her breath caught. The child
was there, motionless, almost hidden in the shadows in the far corner of the
room.
Charlie approached slowly, apprehensive of what she might find. She
blinked and shook her head hard, her dizziness resurging. The room seemed
to spin around her. Who are you? Are you all right? she wanted to ask but
kept silent. She stepped closer, and the figure came into focus. It was just
another animatronic, or perhaps just a normal doll, made to look like a little
boy selling balloons.
He was perhaps four feet tall, with a round head and a round body, his arms
almost as long as his stout legs. He wore a red-and-blue striped shirt, and a
matching propeller beanie on his head. He was made of plastic, but his shiny
face had something old-fashioned about it. Its features mimicked fairy-tale
dolls carved from wood. His nose was a triangle and his cheeks were made
rosy with two raised circles of dusky pink. His blue eyes were enormous,
wide, and staring, and his mouth was open in a grin that bared all his even
white teeth. His hands were fingerless balls, each gripping an object. In one
he held a red and yellow balloon nearly half his size on a stick. In the other he
raised a wooden sign reading BALLOONS!
He was nothing like the creatures Charlie’s father had made, nothing even
like the animatronics that had kidnapped her. They were horrible, but she
recognized them as twisted copies of her father’s work. This boy was
something new. She circled around him, tempted to poke and prod, but she

held back. Don’t chance triggering anything.
“You’re not so bad,” Charlie murmured, cautious not to take her eyes off
him. He just kept grinning, wide-eyed, into the darkness. Turning her
attention to the rest of the room, Charlie looked thoughtfully at the carousel,
the only thing there besides the boy. She was too far away to make out the
animals.
“Hello?” said the voice, right behind her. She spun back just in time to see
the boy turn toward her with a single, swinging step. Charlie screamed and
ran back the way she came from, but beneath her feet the dirt began to stir. It
jolted, as if something were bumping upward. She scrambled backward as the
dirt rose again, and something broke through the surface.
Charlie ran for the carousel, the only cover in the room. She ducked behind
it, lying down on her stomach so her body would be hidden behind its base.
She stared down at the ground and listened to muffled scratches and beating
sounds as some creature climbed free of its grave. The spinning sensation
took hold of her again. The black-and-white tiles swam beneath her. She tried
to push herself up to peek over the carousel, but her head felt leaden. The
weight of it held her down, threatening to pin her back to the ground. There’s
something wrong with this room. Charlie gritted her teeth and yanked her
head up; she scrambled to her feet, steadying herself against the carousel, and
ran back the way she came, not looking back.
The room with the games and the harsh black light was dizzying as well,
and it sprawled out in all directions. Everything seemed farther apart than
before, the walls miles away. Her mind was numb. She fumbled to remember
where she was, unable to tell which way was which. She stumbled forward,
and another mound of earth rose ahead of her. Something glimmered. Her
eyes lit on the silhouettes of arcade machines, their reflective surfaces acting
as beacons in the dark.
She staggered toward them, her head swaying, so heavy she could hardly
stay upright. The walls were crawling with activity. Small things skittered
disjointedly all over the ceiling, but she couldn’t see what they were—they
were wriggling under the paint. The surface undulated chaotically. There was
a strange ringing in the air, and though she only now registered it, she realized
it had been sounding all along. She stopped in her tracks and looked
desperately for the source, but her vision was clouding and her thoughts were
slow. She could barely name the things she saw. Rectangle, she thought
fuzzily. Circle. No. Sphere. She looked from one indistinct shape to another,
trying to remember what they were called. The effort distracted her from
staying on her feet, and she fell to the ground again with a hard thud. Charlie
was sitting upright, but her head dragged at her, threatening to pull her over.
Hello? A voice called again. She put her hands on her head, forcing it back,
and looked up to see several children standing around her, all with plump

little bodies and broad smiling faces. Sammy? She moved toward them
instinctively. They were blurred, and she couldn’t see their features. She
blinked, but her vision didn’t clear. Don’t trust your senses. Something is
wrong.
“Stay back!” Charlie screamed at them. She forced herself unsteadily to her
feet and stumbled toward the shadows cast by the arcade towers. There, at
least, she might be hidden from whatever worse things lurked in the room.
The children went with her, rushing in trails of color around her and
sweeping in and out of view. They seemed more to float than walk. Charlie
kept her eyes on the towers; the children were distracting, but she knew there
was something worse nearby. She could hear the sickening grind of metal,
and plastic twisting, and a rasping noise she recognized. Sharp feet scraped
against the floor, digging grooves into the tile.
She crouched low, fixing her eyes on the nearest open door, and was struck
with a certainty that this was the way she had come. She crawled desperately
toward it, moving as fast as she could without fully standing. Finally, she
collapsed under her own weight and lay flat on the tile again. You have to get
up, now! Charlie let out a scream and clambered to her feet. She ran headlong
into the next room, barely keeping her balance, and skidded to a stop. The
room was full of dining tables and carnival games; it was where she’d started,
but something had changed.
All the eyes were tracking her. The creatures were moving, their skin
stretching organically, their mouths snapping. Charlie ran for the dining table
in the center of the room, the largest one with a tablecloth that almost reached
the floor on all sides. She slid to the ground and crawled under it, curling
herself into a ball and pulling her legs tight against her. For a moment, there
was only silence, and then the voices began again. Hello? a voice called from
somewhere nearby. The tablecloth rustled.
Charlie held her breath. She looked at the thin gap between the tablecloth
and the floor, but she could see only a sliver of the black-and-white tile.
Something shot by, too fast to see, and she gasped and drew back, forgetting
to be silent. The cloth rustled again, swinging gently inward. Someone
outside was prodding it. Charlie maneuvered herself onto her hands and
knees, feeling as if she had too many arms and legs. The cloth moved again,
and this time a swirl of color appeared and vanished in the gap. The children.
They had found her. The tablecloth swung again, but now it was moving on
all sides, jouncing up and down as the children brushed against it. The
strange, colorful trails of movement appeared and vanished all around the
edges of her hiding place, surrounding her like a wall of living paper dolls.
Hello? Hello? Hello? More than one spoke at a time now, but not in a
chorus. Their voices overlapped until the word became a meaningless layer of
sound, blurred like the floating children themselves.

She turned her face to the side. One of the children stared back—it was
under the cloth and gazing at her with a fixed grin and motionless eyes.
Charlie jumped up, banging her head on the tabletop. She looked around
wildly. She was surrounded: a smiling, blurry face was staring at her from
every side. One, two, three, four, four, four. She turned in an awkward circle
on her hands and knees. Two of the children feinted at her, making little
jumps as if they were about to spring. She turned again, and the next one
leaped at her, swimming under the cloth in a bright streak of blue and yellow.
Charlie froze. What do I do? She scrabbled at her sluggish brain, trying
desperately to revive it. Another sweep of color whooshed at her, all purple,
and her brain awoke: RUN.
Charlie scrambled to the tablecloth on her hands and knees and grabbed it,
yanking it off the table as she stood. She threw it down behind her and ran,
not looking back as someone called again, Hello?
She raced toward a sign propped up in the middle of the room, knocking it
over behind her as she ran past. Then a shadow near the stage caught her
attention, and she swerved. She tripped over a chair and just barely managed
to catch herself on another table. Her head was still too heavy. It jerked her
forward, and she shoved the table aside, managing to stay upright. She arrived
at the stage, and in the shadow there was a door.
Charlie fumbled with the knob, but it was spongy, too soft to turn. She
grabbed it with both hands, putting the whole force of her body behind it, and
it moved at last: the door opened. She hurried through and slammed it shut
behind her, feeling for some kind of latch. She found one and snapped it shut,
and as she did her hand brushed a light switch.
A bulb flickered for a moment, then came on dimly, a single glowing strand
of orange illuminating the room. Charlie stared at it for a minute, waiting for
the rest of the light. No more appeared.
She leaned back against a cabinet beside the door and slid down to sit,
putting her hands on her temples and trying to shove her head back to a
normal size. The relative darkness steadied her. She stared down at the floor,
hoping whatever was happening to her was almost over. She looked up, and
the room shifted nauseatingly. It’s not over. Charlie closed her eyes, took a
deep breath of the stale air, and opened them again.
Fur. Claws. Eyes. She clapped a hand over her mouth to stop herself from
screaming. A jolt of adrenaline cut briefly through the fuzziness. The room
was full of creatures, but she couldn’t make sense of them. The dark fur of a
simian arm lay on the floor, inches from her feet, but out of it spilled coils and
bare wire. The rest of the ape was nowhere to be seen.
There was something large and gray right in front of her, a torso with arms
and webbed, amphibious hands, but there was no head. Instead, someone had
balanced a large cardboard box where the neck would have been. Past the

torso were standing figures, a phalanx of shadows. As she stared at them, they
resolved into something comprehensible. They were unfinished mascots, as
distorted as the ones outside.
A rabbit stood at the back. Its head was brown like a jackrabbit and its ears
were swept back, but its eyes were just empty holes. The rabbit’s body was
hunched to the side, and its arms were short, held up as if in surrender. Two
metal frames stood in front of it. One was headless, and the other topped with
the head of a red-eyed, slavering black dog, whose fangs stuck out from its
mouth. Charlie kept her eyes on it for a moment, but it didn’t move. Beside it
—
Charlie cringed and ducked her head, covering her face with her arms.
Nothing happened. Cautiously, she lowered her hands and looked again.
It was Freddy—the misshapen Freddy that had been buried. Charlie
glanced at the door, then back at Freddy. He stared straight ahead, his eyes
blank and his hat askew. It can’t be him, she told herself. It’s just another
costume. But she shrank back, trying to make herself smaller.
Something delicately stroked the top of her head. Charlie screamed and
yanked herself away. She turned to see a disembodied human arm on the shelf
above where she’d been sitting. Its hand stuck out at just the right height to
brush her head. Other arms were stacked beside it and on top of it, some
covered in fur and others not. Some had fingers, some simply ended, cut off at
what would have been the wrist. The other shelves were stacked with similar
things: one with pelts of fur, another with piles of detached feet. One just had
dozens of extension cords tangled up in an ugly nest.
From outside the door Charlie heard the voice again. Hello? The doorknob
rattled. She squeezed past the mutilated arcade games and chopped-off parts,
gritting her teeth as she crawled over soft things that squelched beneath her
weight. As she stepped back, her shoulder crashed into one of the standing
metal frames, the headless one. It rocked on its ungrounded feet, threatening
to topple. She tried to pull away, but the frame followed, swaying for a
moment as she fought to free her hands. She yanked them back and ducked as
more metal frames came crashing to the ground.
She squatted down beside one of the large arcade cabinets. The plastic
casing was cracked so badly the words and pictures were entirely obscured.
Right beside her, inches away, were Freddy’s stocky legs. Charlie huddled
down, pressing against the game as if she could blend in with it. Don’t turn
around, she thought, eyeing the motionless bear. The dim light seemed to be
moving like a spotlight. It glinted off the dog’s red eyes, then the gleaming
tusk, then off something sharp-cornered at the back of the rabbit’s hollow
socket.
Just out of her line of sight, something moved. Charlie whipped her head
around, but there was nothing there. From the corner of her eye, she saw the

rabbit straighten its spine. She turned frantically back toward it but found it
hunched in its same agonized posture as before. Slowly, Charlie looked
around her in a half circle, keeping her back pressed against the console.
Hello? The doorknob rattled again. She closed her eyes and pressed her
fists to her temples. No one’s here, no one’s here. Something rustled in front
of her, and Charlie’s eyes snapped open. Scarcely breathing, she watched as
Freddy came alive. A sickly twisting sound filled the room, and Freddy’s
torso began to turn. Hello? Her eyes shifted to the door for a split second, and
when she looked back again Freddy was still. I have to get out of here.
She took a moment to measure the path, looking first to the door, then to
Freddy in front of her, mapping a blurry route. At last she went, looking down
at her hands and nothing else as she crawled steadily around the motionless
legs of the standing animatronics, and past the half-bestial games. Don’t look
up. Something brushed against her leg as she passed it, and she pressed on,
her head down. Then something grabbed her ankle.
Charlie screamed and flailed, trying to kick herself free, but the iron grip
tightened. She looked frantically over her shoulder: Freddy was crouched
behind her, the light glinting off his face and making him seem to smile.
Charlie yanked her foot back with all her strength, and Freddy pulled even
harder, dragging her closer. Charlie grabbed the leg of a pinball game and
hoisted herself up to her knees. As Freddy tried again to drag her back, the
game shook and rattled like it was about to fall. Clutching at it with all her
might, Charlie jerked her body up and forward. Freddy’s claws tore her skin
as she wrenched herself free, and the pinball machine collapsed under her
weight.
Freddy lurched forward. That horrible mouth unhinged again like an
enormous snake. He crouched down, coming toward her in a sinuous motion.
She scrambled over the broken game toward the door. Behind her, something
rustled and scraped, but she didn’t look back. Her hand on the doorknob,
Charlie stopped as the room around her swayed. The noise behind her grew
louder, closer, and she turned to see Freddy crawling toward her in a
predatory crouch. His mouth was widening. Dirt poured out of it in a steady
stream.
“Hello? Charlie?” came a voice from outside. But this voice was different;
it wasn’t the animatronic child. Charlie fumbled at the knob, the spinning
sensation in her head worsening as Freddy came slowly, purposefully closer.
The room swayed again, and her hand closed on the knob and turned it. She
shoved the door open and stumbled into the light.
“Charlie!” someone cried, but she didn’t look up. The sudden brightness
was piercing, and she held up a hand to shield her eyes as she forced the door
shut again. The ringing hadn’t stopped while she was in the closet, but now it
was louder. It filled her ears like a skewer, plunging into her swollen brain.

She fell to her knees, wrapping her arms around her head, trying to protect it.
“Charlie, are you okay?” Something touched her, and she shied away, her
eyes screwed shut against the light. “Charlie, it’s John,” the voice said, cutting
through the awful noise, and something in her went still.
“John?” she whispered, her voice raspy. The dust from the grave had
settled in her throat.
“Yeah.” She turned her head and peered up through the shield of her arms.
Slowly, the blazing light calmed, and she saw a human face. John.
“Are you real?” she asked, uncertain what kind of answer would convince
her. He touched her again, a hand on her arm, and she didn’t pull away. She
blinked, and her vision cleared a little. She looked up, feeling as if she were
opening herself to attack. Her eyes lit on two more people, and her halting
mind slowly named them. “Jessica … ? Clay?”
“Yeah,” John said. She put her hand on his and tried to focus. She could see
Jessica, who was doubled over, her hands over her own ears.
“The noise,” Charlie said. “She hears the noise, too. Do you?” It grew
louder, drowning out John’s response, and Charlie grabbed his hand. Real.
This is real. “The children!” she cried out suddenly, as a swath of undulating
colors rose from underneath the tables. They flew, their feet not touching the
ground, their bodies leaving comet-like trails of color behind them. “Do you
see?” Charlie whispered to John.
“Jessica!” he shouted. “Look out!” Jessica straightened, dropping her
hands, and yelled something indistinct. The children converged on her in a
swarm, dancing around her, darting in close, then back out again, as if it were
a game, or an ambush. Two rushed on Clay, who stared them down until they
shriveled and swirled back to join the circle around Jessica.
“The lights!” Jessica cried, her voice rising above the painful ringing noise.
“Clay, it’s coming from the lights on the walls!” She pointed up, where
Charlie could just make out a long row of decorative colored lights, evenly
spaced.
A gunshot cut through the clamor, and Charlie gripped John’s hand tighter.
Jessica’s hands were on her ears again. The children were still in motion, but
it was a nervous, shimmering movement. They’d stopped in place. Clay stood
with his back to them all, his gun pointed at the wall. Charlie watched, wideeyed, as he took aim again, and shot out the bulb of the second light fixture.
The room dimmed slightly, and he moved on to the third, then the next, then
the next. As one shot rang out after another, Charlie’s head began to equalize,
like whatever stuff had filled her to the point of bursting was slowly being
drained. The room darkened, one bulb at a time. Bang. She looked up at John,
and his face was clear. “It’s really you,” she said, her voice still choked with
dust. Bang.
“It’s really me,” he agreed.

Bang.
The children’s shimmering slowed, giving glimpses of arms and legs and
faces. Jessica took her hands from her ears.
Bang.
Clay shot the last light, and the children stopped shimmering. They
wavered briefly on the edge of solidity, a sickening ripple of lights in a
scattered harmony, and then they were still. The room was silent. It was still
lit by the overhead lights, but all the others were dead. Jessica looked around
her, bafflement and horror taking turns on her face. The children were no
longer children. They were wind-up toys, plastic boys in striped shirts,
wearing plastic smiles and propeller beanies, and offering balloons.
“Jessica, come here,” Clay said in a low voice, holding out his hand. She
stepped toward him, glancing warily at the balloon boys as she moved
between them. He took her hand to help her through, as if he were pulling her
out of a chasm. Charlie slowly let go of John’s hand and put hers to her
temples, checking to make sure everything was still there. Her head no longer
ached; her vision was clear. Whatever had come over her was gone.
“Charlie,” Jessica said. “Are you all right? What’s going on in here? I feel
… drugged.”
“These things aren’t real.” Charlie steadied herself and slowly got to her
feet. “I mean, they’re real, but not how we’re seeing them. This whole place
is an illusion. It’s twisted somehow. Those things …” She gestured toward the
wall where Clay had shot out the lights. “Those things are like the disc we
found. They emit some kind of signal that distorts how we see.” Charlie
shook her head. “We have to get out of here,” she said. “There’s something
worse here than these.”
She pushed over a balloon boy, and it toppled easily. Its head popped off as
it hit the ground, and it rolled across the floor. Hello? it muttered, much
quieter than before.

John prodded the plastic balloon boy’s head with his toe. It rolled a little
farther, but did not speak again.
“Charlie?” Jessica said shakily. “Where are they? The big ones.”
“I don’t know. My head is still spinning.” Charlie glanced around quickly,
then drew closer to the others as they surveyed the room. Everything had
changed when Clay shattered the fixtures. The realistic beasts and viciouslooking creatures were gone, replaced with strange, hairless versions of
themselves. They no longer had eyes, only smooth, raised bumps of blank
plastic.
“They look like corpses,” John said softly.
“Or some kind of mold,” Clay said thoughtfully. “They don’t look
finished.”
“It’s the lights,” Charlie said. “They were creating an illusion, like the
chip.”
“What are you talking about?” Jessica said. “What chip?”
“It’s—it’s some kind of transmitter, embedded in a disc,” Charlie said. “It
scrambles your brain, cluttering it with nonsense so that you see what you
expect to see.”
“Then why don’t they look like that?” Clay pointed to posters on the walls
depicting a very cheerful Freddy Fazbear with rosy cheeks and a warm smile.
“Or that.” John had found another, depicting Bonnie jovially strumming a
bright red guitar so shiny it looked like it was made from candy.
Charlie looked thoughtful for a moment. “Because we didn’t come here
first.” She walked toward the posters. “If you were a little kid and you saw the
cute commercials, then saw these posters and toys and all that stuff, then I

think that’s exactly what they would have looked like.”
“Because you already have those images in your head,” John said. He tore
the Freddy poster off the wall and stared at it momentarily before letting it fall
to the ground. “But we know better. We know they’re monsters.”
“And we’re afraid of them,” Charlie said.
“And so we’re seeing them for exactly what they are,” John concluded.
Clay went up to the arcade mascots again, his gun still drawn. He walked
back and forth in front of the displays, looking at them from different angles.
“How did you find me?” Charlie asked suddenly. “You showed up like the
cavalry—just in time. How did you know I was here? How did you know any
of this was here?”
No one answered right away. John and Jessica looked to Clay, who was
casting his eyes around the room purposefully; he looked like he was
searching for something specific. “We followed …” He trailed off.
Charlie looked at each of the three of them in turn. “Who?” she demanded.
But just as she spoke, the closet door burst open, banging against the wall
with a ringing clatter. The twisted Freddy who had taken Charlie came
crashing out, his mouth still unhinged and swinging unnaturally. He was a
nightmarish version of the Freddy they’d known as kids, with searing red eyes
and the musculature of a monster. He turned his elongated head from side to
side wildly, his jaw bouncing in place.
“Run!” Clay yelled, waving his arms and trying to usher them together
toward the door. Charlie was rooted to the ground, unable to take her eyes off
the maw of the beast.
“Wait!” Jessica cried suddenly. “Clay, these aren’t possessed like the others
—they’re not the lost children!”
“What?” he said, momentarily stopping his frantic movement and looking
thoroughly confused.
“Shoot it!” Jessica screamed. Clay clenched his jaw, then raised the gun
and aimed at Freddy’s gaping mouth. He fired once. The shot was only a few
feet from Charlie’s ear, and it was deafening. Freddy jerked back, the pythonlike jaw contracting, and for a split second his image blurred and distorted.
The unnaturally stretched mouth began to close, but before it could, Clay
fired again, three more times in quick succession. With each shot the creature
seemed to glitch: it blurred, sputtering around the edges. Freddy’s mouth
curled in on itself, not quite closing but shrinking inward, as the bear hunched
forward around its wounds. Clay fired one last time, aiming for Freddy’s
head. Finally, the animatronic toppled forward, a misshapen heap on the
ground.
Freddy’s image flickered like static on a television screen. The color faded
from his fur, then everything that made him Freddy winked out, leaving only
a smooth plastic figure in his place. It looked like the rest of the animals in the

room, a blank mannequin stripped of its characteristics. Charlie approached
the thing that had been Freddy cautiously. The ringing in her ears was
beginning to fade. She crouched down next to the creature, tilting her head to
the side.
“It’s not like the other mascots from Freddy’s,” she said. “These aren’t
made of fur and fabric, they’re made of us—by twisting our minds.” The
words came out with a revulsion she hadn’t expected.
“Charlie,” John said softly. He stepped forward, but she ignored him. She
touched the creature’s smooth skin. It felt like something between plastic and
human skin: a strange, malleable substance that was a little too soft, a little
too slick. The feeling of it made her nauseous. Charlie leaned over the body,
ignoring her disgust, and plunged her fingers into one of the bullet holes. She
dug around in the slippery, inorganic stuff of the chest cavity, pretending not
to hear Jessica and Clay’s protests, and then she found it. Her fingers touched
the disc, which was bent in half, almost broken. Charlie pried out a second
piece of metal that was wedged beside it.
She stood up and held it out to the others; a bullet rested in her palm.
“You shot the chip,” she said. “You killed the illusion.”
* * *
No one spoke. In the momentary quiet, Charlie was suddenly aware of the
racket they had just made, in this place so accustomed to stillness. The silence
was broken by a clicking sound: the noise of claws on tile.
They all whirled to see, and from what had appeared to be a dark and
empty corner, a wolflike figure split away from the shadows and stalked
toward them, upright but hunched forward, as if uncertain whether to walk as
a beast or a human.
They backed away as one. Charlie saw Clay about to trip on Freddy’s
collapsed body. She shouted, “Look out!” He stopped, turning to see, and his
eyes widened at something behind Charlie.
“There!” he cried, and fired a shot into the dark. They turned: an eight-foot,
misshapen Bonnie, the rabbit counterpart to the creature on the floor, was
blocking the doorway behind them. Its head was too large for its body, with
eyes glowing white-hot in the dark. Its mouth was open, revealing several
rows of gleaming teeth. Clay fired again, but the bullet had no effect.
“How many bullets do you have left?” John said, measuring up the two
threats still in the room.
Clay fired off three more shots at Bonnie, then lowered the gun.
“Three,” he said dryly. “I had three.” From the corner of her eye, Charlie
saw John and Jessica draw closer together, moving a little behind Clay. She
stayed where she was as the others retreated, transfixed by the two advancing
figures: the wolf and the rabbit. She started to walk toward them.

“Charlie,” John said with a warning tone. “What are you doing? Come
back!”
“Why did you bring me here?” Charlie asked, looking from one creature to
the other. Her chest was tight and her eyes ached, like she’d been holding
back tears for hours. “What do you want from me?” she shouted. They looked
back at her with implacable plastic eyes. “What is this place? What do you
know about my brother?” she screamed, her throat raw. She flung herself at
the wolf, hurtling toward the gigantic beast, as if she could tear it apart with
her bare hands. Someone caught her by the waist. Human hands lifted her up
and pulled her back, and Clay spoke quietly into her ear.
“Charlie, we need to go, now.” She pulled herself out of his grasp, but
remained where she was. Her breath was unsteady. She wanted to scream
until her lungs gave out. She wanted to close her eyes and sit very still, and
never emerge from the darkness.
Instead she looked again from Bonnie to the nameless wolf and asked, her
voice so calm it chilled her to hear it, “Why do you want me?”
“They don’t care about you. I’m the one that brought you here.” A voice
spoke from the same shadowed corner the wolf had emerged from. The rabbit
and the wolf straightened their posture, as if responding to the speaker’s
command.
“I know that voice,” Jessica whispered. A figure began to limp forward,
obscured by darkness. No one moved. Charlie realized she was holding her
breath, but she didn’t hear anyone else breathing in the silence, either, just the
uneven shuffle of whatever was coming. Whatever it was, it was the size of a
man. Its body was contorted, sloping to one side as it lurched toward the
group.
“You have something that belongs to me,” said the voice, and then the
figure stepped into the light.
Charlie gasped and heard John’s sharp intake of breath. “Impossible,”
Charlie whispered. She felt John move up to stand beside her, but she didn’t
dare take her eyes off the man who stood before them.
His face was dark, the color mottled, and it was swollen with fluid; cheeks
that had been hollow were now distended with the bloat of decay. His eyes
were bloodshot, the burst capillaries threading through eyeballs that looked
just a little too translucent. Something inside them had gone bad, jellylike. At
the base of his neck, Charlie could see two pieces of metal gleaming. They
extended from within his neck, rectangular lumps standing out from his
mottled skin. He wore what had once been a mascot suit of yellow fur, though
what remained was now green with mold.
“Dave?” Jessica breathed.
“Don’t call me that,” he snarled. “I haven’t been Dave for a long time.” He
held out his new hands: blood-soaked and forever sealed inside a rotting suit.

“William Afton, then? Of Afton Robotics?”
“Wrong again,” he hissed. “I’ve accepted the new life that you gave me.
You’ve made me one with my creation. My name is Springtrap!” The man
who had once been Dave cried the name with a hoarse glee, then scrunched
his gnarled face back into a glare. “I’m more than Afton ever was, and far
more than Henry.”
“Well, you smell terrible,” Jessica quipped.
“Ever since Charlie remade me, set me free to my destiny, I’ve been master
of all these creatures.” He crooked his fingers and made a sharp gesture
forward. Bonnie and the wolf took two steps forward, in unison. “See? All the
animatronics are linked together; it was a system designed to control the
choreography for the shows. Now, I control the system. I control the
choreography. All of this belongs to me.”
Springtrap shuffled forward, and Charlie shrank back. “I owe you both
another debt of gratitude as well,” he said. “I was imprisoned in that tomb
beneath the stage, scarcely able to move, only able to see through the eyes of
my creatures.”
He gestured at the two who stood behind him. “But for all that I could see,
I was trapped. Eventually they would have broken me out, but having you do
it yourself was a delightful surprise.” He met Charlie’s eyes, and a muscle
twitched in her cheek.
Get away from me, don’t come any closer. As if reading her thoughts, he
sidled nearer to her. She would have felt his breath on her face, if he still
breathed.
Springtrap raised a bent hand. The fabric suit was ragged, revealing his
human skin through the gaps. She could see the places where metal pins and
rods had buried themselves alongside his bones and tendons, into a rusted
shadow-skeleton. He touched the back of his hand to Charlie’s face, stroking
her cheek like a beloved child. From the corner of her eye, she saw John start
forward.
“No, it’s okay,” she forced herself to say.
“I won’t hurt your friends, but I need something from you.”
“You have to be kidding,” she said, her voice brittle.
His mouth twisted into something that grotesquely resembled a smile.
John heard a faint click, and turned just in time to see Clay loading one
bullet quietly into his gun. Clay shrugged. “You never know when a corpse
may wander out of the shadows wearing a rabbit suit.” He raised his arm,
steadied himself, and fired.
Springtrap recoiled. “Kids!” Clay shouted, “the door!” Charlie jerked her
eyes away from Springtrap almost painfully, as if he had been exerting some
hypnotic force on her. Bonnie had abandoned the exit, leaving it clear. Clay,
John, and Jessica began to run. Charlie glanced back, reluctant to go, then

joined the others.
They ran back the way they’d come from, Clay leading the way as they
wound through the carnival games and looming, featureless mascots. He
strode purposefully ahead, as if he knew the way. Charlie remembered her
question that no one had answered. How did you find me?
They were chased by sounds: scraping metal and the clack of the wolf’s
claws. In the open space, the noises echoed strangely, seeming to come from
every side. It was as if an army pursued them. Charlie quickened her step. She
glanced up at John, seeking reassurance, but his eyes were on Clay ahead of
them.
They reached the room with the waterfall, and again Clay knew the path.
He headed directly for the passage beneath the cliff, where the water emerged.
They pressed through it one by one. Clay and John were too tall to walk
through without bending over, and Charlie felt a quick pang of relief. The
monsters won’t fit. Halfway through the passage, Clay paused, standing
motionless in an awkward position. He craned his neck, studying something
just out of view. “Clay!” Charlie hissed.
“I have an idea,” he said. Two shadows emerged from the far side of the
room. Jessica glanced at the black-lit tunnel beside them, ready to run for it.
But Clay shook his head. Instead, he guided the group backward, none of
them taking their eyes off the monsters. All that shielded them now was the
river that bisected the room. The animatronics were approaching the water
hesitantly. The wolf sniffed at it and shook his fur, and Bonnie simply bent
down and stared. “Don’t run,” Clay said sternly.
“They can’t cross that thing, right?” Charlie said.
As if responding to her cue, the two mascots stepped unsteadily into the
river. Jessica gasped, and Charlie took an involuntary step back. Slowly and
deliberately, the animatronics continued toward them through the waist-high
water. The wolf slipped on the smooth bottom and fell. It dunked completely
under the water for a moment, before scrambling to the side, thrashing
violently. Bonnie lost his footing as well but managed to grab the riverbank
and steady himself, then continued forward.
“That’s not possible,” Charlie said. Behind her came a peal of laughter, and
she whirled around.
It was Springtrap, his eyes scarcely visible, peering through the black-lit
tunnel nearby. “Was that your plan?” he said incredulously. “Did you think my
robots would be as poorly designed as your father’s?”
“Well then, I’m sure you made them fireproof as well!” Clay called out.
His voice reverberated in the cavernous, empty room. Springtrap frowned,
puzzled, then looked at the water in the stream. It was glistening in the dim
light, color dancing on its surface in gleaming swirls, like—
“Gasoline.” Charlie turned to face Springtrap. Open gas cans lined the

walls, some lying on their sides; all were empty.
Clay flicked a lighter and flung it into the water. The top of the river caught
fire, a flame billowing up like a tidal wave, obscuring the animatronics in the
middle. The creatures struggled to the side of the river, emitting guttural,
high-pitched shrieks. They managed to crawl onto the bank, but it was too
late. Their illusions deactivated. Their plastic skin was exposed, liquefying
and falling from their bodies into little flaming pools on the floor. Charlie and
the others watched as the dissolving creatures fell, writhing in agonized
screams.
They all stood frozen, mesmerized by the gruesome spectacle. Then, from
behind her, Charlie heard a quiet scraping sound. She whirled around to see
Springtrap vanish into the mouth of the narrow, black-lit cave. She took off
after him, running into the eerie light.
“Charlie!” Clay called. He began to chase her, but the flaming creatures
had crawled across the floor—perhaps trying to reach their master, perhaps in
mindless desperation—and now they blocked the mouth of the cave with their
blazing remains. Charlie set her eyes on the path ahead. She couldn’t afford to
look back.
The passage was narrow, and it smelled damp and ancient. The floor felt
like rock beneath her bare feet, but though it was uneven, it wasn’t painful.
The surface was worn and smooth. As soon as the dark of the cave closed
over her, she felt a spark from her dreams: the tug of something so like her
that it was her, blood calling to blood.
“Sammy?” she whispered. His name glanced off the cave walls, shrouding
her in the sound of it. The absence inside her pulled her forward, drawing her
toward the promise of completion. It has to be you. Charlie ran faster,
following a call that came from deep inside her.
She could hear the distant echo of Springtrap’s laughter at intervals, but she
couldn’t spot him ahead of her. Occasionally she thought she caught glimpses
of him, but he was always gone before her eyes had time to focus in the
disorienting glow of the black light. The cave twisted and turned until she had
no idea which direction she was headed, but she ran on.
Charlie blinked as something moved at the corner of her eye, just out of
sight. She shook her head and ran on, but then it happened again. An
unnatural shape, neon-bright, slithered out of the wall and wriggled past her.
Charlie stopped, clapping a hand over her mouth so she wouldn’t scream.
The thing undulated up the wall, moving like an eel though it was climbing
rock. When it reached the ceiling, it vanished, but she couldn’t see a break in
the rock where it might have gone. Just keep going. She started to run again,
but suddenly more of them poured out of the seam at the base of the wall.
Dozens of wriggling shapes swam and danced, moving along the floor of the
cave like it was the floor of the sea. Three of them headed right for Charlie.

They rippled over her feet and she screamed, then realized as they circled her,
nibbling curiously at her toes, that she felt nothing. “You aren’t real,” she
said. She kicked at them, and her foot passed straight through empty air: the
creatures had vanished. Charlie gritted her teeth and ran onward.
Ahead of her, large glowing creatures like dancers made of mist appeared
and vanished one after another. They dashed across the passage, as if they
were running along a path that just happened to intersect with this one. When
Charlie was almost close enough to touch them, the one nearest sputtered and
faded out. She ran on, listening for the sound of Springtrap’s maniacal giggle,
hoping that it was enough to guide her.
She turned a corner, then the passage angled sharply the other way. Charlie
ran straight into the wall, catching herself with her hands at the last second.
She spun around, looking for the way forward. The jolt had been enough to
distract her. She couldn’t tell which way she had come from. Charlie took a
deep breath and closed her eyes. She could hear a soft voice in the air. Left.
She started running again.
A burst of blue light nearly blinded her as a massive shape rose in the
darkness. Charlie screamed, flinging herself back against the wall of the cave
and throwing her arms up to shield her face. The thing before her was a
gaping mouth full of teeth, all glowing blue. The enormous maw bore down
over her.
“It’s an illusion,” Charlie whispered. She ducked and tried to roll away in
the narrow space. Her shoulder struck a rock and her arm went numb. Charlie
clutched it instinctively and looked up: nothing was there.
She pressed her back against the wall of the cave, taking deep breaths as
feeling slowly returned to her arm. “It’s another transmitter,” she said quietly.
“Nothing I see here is real.” Her voice was thin in the rocky passage, but
saying the words aloud was enough to make her stand again. She closed her
eyes. The connection she had felt was growing stronger as she ran, the sense
that she was running toward a missing piece of herself. It was unbearable,
stronger than the urge to fight or flee from danger. It was greater than hunger,
deeper than thirst, and it pulled at the core of her being. She could no more
turn back than she could choose to stop breathing. She set off again, hurtling
farther into the cavern.
Far in the distance, Springtrap’s laughter still echoed.
* * *
“Charlie!” John called again, but it was hopeless. She was long out of sight,
deep into the cave, and what remained of Bonnie and the wolf still burned in
front of the opening.
“We have to go!” Clay shouted. “We can find another way!” Jessica
grabbed John’s arm and he gave in, following Clay toward the arcade

entrance.
Just as they reached the door, the twisted Freddy lunged out of the
shadows, almost falling to the ground. Jessica screamed and John froze,
struck still at the sight of him. His illusion sputtered on and off in pieces. An
arm flickered away, exposing the smooth plastic underneath. Then the fur
returned and his torso went blank, revealing the gunshot holes, and the ugly,
twisted metal beneath the plastic shell. Worse was the face: not only was the
illusion missing, but the material underneath. From his chin to his forehead,
the left half of Freddy’s face had been ripped away, revealing metal plates and
gnarled wires. His left eye glowed red amid the exposed machinery, while his
right eye was completely dark.
A noise behind them broke John from his horrified reverie. He looked back
to see that Bonnie and the wolf had gotten to their feet, still smoldering. Their
plastic casings had almost entirely melted away, still dribbling slowly off their
bodies, but the robotic works beneath seemed intact. They approached
steadily, moving into position, so that John, Clay, and Jessica were
surrounded.
“Do you have any bullets left?” John asked Clay in a low voice. Clay
slowly shook his head. He was turning in a cautious circle, shifting his gaze
from one animatronic to the next, as if trying to gauge which would make the
first strike.
* * *
Charlie ran steadily on, keeping her eyes on the path. She turned another
corner and blinked. Something was glowing blue ahead of her. It’s not real,
she told herself. She paused for a moment, but the glowing shapes didn’t
move. She kept going, realizing as she drew closer that the passageway was
widening, opening out finally into a small alcove where the blue glow became
clear.
The floor was spotted with patches of mushrooms, their caps glowing an
intense neon blue under the black light. She slowed her pace, went to the
nearest grouping and bent to touch the mushrooms. She snapped her hand
back in surprise when she felt a spongy substance. “They’re real, sort of,” she
said.
“Yes,” said a voice beside her ear, and then she was choking. Springtrap
grabbed her by the neck, crushing her windpipe. Charlie only panicked for a
moment before anger returned to her, giving her clarity. She reached her arm
out forward as far as she could, then jammed it back, striking her elbow into
his solar plexus with as much force as she could muster. His hands dropped
from her throat and she leaped free, turning to face him as he clutched his
injured gut.
“Things have changed since you died,” Charlie said, surprised by the calm

disdain in her voice. “For one thing, I’ve been doing sit-ups!”
* * *
“I think this is it,” Jessica said quietly, spinning in place as the three monsters
approached, leaving no avenue of retreat. John felt his chest clench, his body
protesting the idea. But she was right. He put a hand on her shoulder.
“Maybe we can play dead,” he said.
“I don’t think we’ll have to play,” Jessica said resignedly.
“Backs together,” Clay barked, and they backed up into a tiny triangle,
each facing one of the creatures. The wolf was crouched, ready to spring.
John met its eyes. They were sputtering in and out: dark and malevolent, then
completely blank. The thing drew back, and John steeled himself. Jessica
grabbed his hand, and he clenched hers tightly. The wolf leaped—and then
fell to the ground screeching as something knocked it viciously on its face.
The figure, invisible in the shadows, grabbed the wolf’s feet and yanked it
backward, dragging it away from its human prey as it howled, scrabbling at
the floor with its claws. It kicked its hind legs, freeing itself, and began its
attack again. Jessica screamed, and John shouted with her, then watched,
breathless, as the wolf was caught by its feet again. The thing that held it
flipped it onto its back and jumped on top of it. The new predator paused for
an instant, meeting their eyes with a silver glow, and Jessica gasped.
“Foxy,” John breathed. As if spurred on by hearing his name, Foxy plunged
his hook into the wolf’s chest and began to tear at its exposed machinery. The
screeches of metal ripping apart metal ground at their ears. Foxy continued to
dig furiously, burrowing into the wolf as wires and parts fell from the sky. He
snapped his jaws in the air, then tore at the wolf’s stomach, wrenching out its
insides and flinging them aside with a brutal efficiency. The wolf was
overpowered, its limbs flailing helplessly before falling heavily to the ground.
Behind them came another inhuman scream. John whipped around in time
to see the fire-ravaged Bonnie on its stomach, being dragged steadily into the
shadows. Its eyes blinked on and off in a panicked, meaningless pattern. It
screamed again as, with a horrible grinding sound, it was torn to pieces by
whatever lurked in the shadows. Pieces of metal and shredded plastic
scattered across the floor, skittering out in front of the prone rabbit, so that it
could see the remnants of its own lower half. It screamed again, anchoring its
claws into the tile in a last, futile defense, only to be pulled screeching into
the dark as though through a grinder. In the shadows, four lights glowed. John
blinked, realizing they were eyes. He nudged Jessica.
“I can see them,” he whispered. “Chica and Bonnie! Our Chica and
Bonnie!” Beside the river, Foxy had torn the wolf’s limbs from its body. He
leaped from the ravaged torso and took an attack posture toward the large,
twisted Freddy, which twitched and flickered for a moment, then lowered its

massive head and charged. Foxy leaped, hitting the twisted Freddy’s face with
full force and knocking it onto its back, then tearing into its head cavity,
slashing at what was left of the twisted face with enthusiasm.
Something grabbed John and he snapped out of his trance. The twisted
Bonnie grabbed him with an arm of exposed metal, but the eyes in the dark
rose suddenly behind it. The original Bonnie grabbed the torso of the twisted
Bonnie and threw it aside to where Chica waited; she grabbed the misshapen
rabbit’s head and wrenched it off in a burst of sparks.
John shielded his eyes. When the smoke settled, all that remained was the
hollow, burnt corpse of an unidentifiable monster. Bonnie and Chica had
vanished into the shadows.
* * *
Charlie ran for the mouth of the passage, but Springtrap leaped on her with
preternatural speed. He knocked her to the ground and reached again for her
neck with his swollen hands. Charlie rolled out of the way, and something
jabbed her hard in the back. She snatched at it, and a mushroom cap came
away in her hands. She leaped to her knees as Springtrap got to his feet,
circling her, looking for an opening. She glanced down: a sturdy, metal spike
had held the mushroom cap in place. She wrapped her hand around its base,
blocking it from Springtrap’s sight with her body.
Charlie looked up at him, meeting his gelatinous eyes, silently daring him
to attack. As if on cue, he sprang at her, leaping with his arms thrust out,
stretching again toward her throat. At the last moment, Charlie ducked her
head and thrust the spike upward with all her might. It stopped with a jolt as it
hit his chest, but she drove it in, ignoring his sputtering cries as he tried
uselessly to beat her away. She stood, her hands shaking as she shoved the
stake in as far as it would go. He toppled backward, and she knelt swiftly
beside him, giving the metal spike another thrust.
“Tell me why,” she hissed. It was the question that consumed her, the thing
that kept coming back in her nightmares. Now he said nothing, and she
rocked the stake back and forth in his chest. He made a gagging cry of pain.
“Tell me why you took him! Why did you choose him? Why did you take
Sammy?”
* * *
“Into the cave!” John shouted. “We have to get Charlie!”
They hurried to the opening, but from inside the cave came a strange,
overwhelming clatter. They all stepped back as a horde of the balloon boys
emerged from the cave, shaking back and forth on unsteady feet, their pointed
teeth chattering loudly as they wobbled forward with staring eyes.
“Not again! I hate these things!” Jessica cried. Clay took up a fighting

stance, but John could see they would be overwhelmed. There was something
different about the children now, something coordinated. Though they shook
and wobbled, it no longer seemed like a sign of weakness. Instead, John
thought of warriors rattling their shields: the threat before the battle.
“We have to get away,” he said. “Clay!”
Something shook the earth—pounding, even footsteps—as a shadow
loomed above them. John looked up and saw a smiling Freddy Fazbear
approaching, his hat at a jaunty angle and his massive limbs swinging. “Oh
no! He’s back!” Jessica screeched.
“No, wait! That’s our Freddy!” John grabbed Jessica and shielded her with
his arms. Freddy lumbered past them and into the crowd of balloon boys.
With a single lunge he smashed both arms into the crowd, creating a
deafening shatter of metal and plastic. The air was filled with arms, legs, and
broken shrapnel. Freddy got to his feet and grabbed one of the balloon boys,
lifting it up like it weighed nothing. He crushed its head with one hand.
Freddy tossed the body to the ground and stomped on it, pursuing the others
as they ran. They scattered, but Freddy was moving swiftly, and the room
resounded with the noise of cracking plastic.
“Come on, into the cave!” Clay yelled over the din, and they ran for the
passage. They hurried down the narrow path, Clay at the front and John
taking up the rear, glancing behind to make sure they weren’t being followed.
Suddenly Clay halted, and Jessica and John nearly ran into him. Crowding up
beside him, they saw why he’d stopped: the path split, and there was no trace
of Charlie.
“There,” Jessica said suddenly. “There’s a light!”
John blinked. It was dim, but he saw it. Somewhere down the passage there
was a blue glow, though it was impossible to tell how far away it was. “Come
on,” he said grimly, pressing past Clay to take the lead.
* * *
“Why did you take Sammy?!” Charlie cried again. Springtrap wheezed and
smiled but did not speak. She grabbed his head with both hands, desperate
with fury. She lifted his head and brought it crashing against the rock where it
lay. He made another sharp grunt of pain, and she did it again. This time
something began to ooze from the back of his head, running thickly down the
rock. “What did you do to him?” Charlie demanded. “Why did you take him?
Why did you choose him?” He looked up at her; one of his pupils had
swallowed the iris of his eye. He smiled vaguely.
“I didn’t choose him.”
Hands grabbed Charlie’s shoulders, dragging her up and away from the
semiconscious Springtrap. She shouted and turned to fight back, only
stopping herself when she saw that it was Clay. The others were behind him.

She turned back, shaking with rage.
“I’ll kill you!” she cried. She lifted Springtrap up by the shoulders and
shoved him back against the rock. His head bounced and lolled to the side.
“What do you mean you didn’t choose him?” Charlie said, leaning in close to
him, as if she might read the answers in his battered face. “You took him from
me! Why did you take him?”
Springtrap’s mismatched eyes seemed to focus for a moment, and even he
seemed to have difficulty muttering his next words.
“I didn’t take him. I took you.”
Charlie stared, her fingers going lax, loosening on Springtrap’s moldy suit.
What? The rage that had filled her to the breaking point drained away all at
once. She felt like she’d lost too much blood and was going into shock.
Springtrap didn’t try to get away; he just lay there coughing and sputtering,
his eyes once more unfocused, staring into a void Charlie couldn’t see.
Suddenly the floor rattled beneath them. The walls rocked inward as the
whole cave shook, and something mechanical roared on the other side of the
wall. The sounds of grinding metal filled the air.
“It’s a battle royale out there!” Clay shouted. “This whole place is coming
down!” Charlie glanced at him, and as soon as her head was turned she felt
Springtrap slip from her fingers. She whipped back around, just in time to see
him roll through an open trap door at the base of an enormous rock a few feet
away. Charlie leaped up to follow him, but the floor quaked violently. She lost
her footing, nearly falling as half the cave wall came tumbling down. She
stopped, glancing around in confusion: real rock and dirt cascaded all around
them. “It’s not the fake cave that’s collapsing!” she shouted to the rest. “It’s
the whole building!”
“Is everyone okay?” Clay shouted. Charlie nodded, and saw that John and
Jessica were still on their feet. “We have to go!” Light shone through a crack
in the wall ahead. Clay started for it, motioning the others to follow. Charlie
hesitated, unable to take her eyes from the last place she’d seen Springtrap.
John put a hand on her arm.
The walls of the fake cavern had almost completely fallen, and now they
could see the actual interior of the complex.
“That way!” Clay shouted, pointing to a narrow maintenance hall that
seemed to stretch off endlessly into the distance. “None of these things will be
able to fit through there!” Clay and Jessica ran for the entrance to the corridor,
but Charlie faltered.
“Charlie, we can deal with him another day,” John shouted over the din.
“But we need to survive this one first!” The ground shook again and John
looked at Charlie. She nodded, and they ran.
Clay led them racing through the tunnel as the sound of its collapse chased
them. The air was filled with dust, obscuring the path ahead. Charlie looked

back once, but the ruins were lost in the haze. Eventually the rumble of falling
rock was reduced to a distant thunder. The clean, narrow hallway began to
feel removed from the madness behind them.
“Clay we have to stop,” Jessica cried, holding her side like she was in pain.
“I see something up ahead. I think we’re almost to the end of this. There!”
The hallway ended in a heavy metal door, partially cracked, and Clay
beckoned John to help him open it. It squealed and protested, then gave way
at last, opening into a simple room of dark stone. One wall of it had been
knocked down, and the room gaped open, the cool night air pouring in.
John looked at Charlie. “We’re out! We’re okay!” He laughed.
“Don’t you see where we are?” she whispered. Slowly, she walked the
length of the room, gesturing to the four enormous pits in the floor, one of
which contained a headless, half-buried robot. “John, this is my dad’s house.
It’s the room we found.”
“Come on, Jessica.” Clay was helping Jessica through the gap in the
collapsed wall. He paused and looked back to John.
“It’s okay,” John said. “We’ll be right there.” Clay nodded. He helped
Jessica through and moved out of sight.
“What is this?” Charlie put her hand on her stomach, a sudden unease
settling over her.
“What’s wrong?” John asked. Something flickered all around them, a
disorienting flash, too fast to even tell where it had come from. A thunderous
crash echoed from the hall they’d just broken out of. “Charlie, I think we
should go with Clay.”
“Yeah, I’m coming.” Charlie followed John to the gap in the wall as he
climbed through it.
“Okay, come on,” John shouted, holding out his hand to her from what had
once been her own backyard. She started forward, then stopped as the lights
flickered again. What is that?
It was the walls. The whitewashed concrete was blinking in and out of
existence, shivering like a dying bulb. It was the wall Charlie had been drawn
to the first time they came to this place. Now she felt its pull as she had in the
cave. It was stronger here than it had ever been, even in the dreams that left
her drained and aching. I’m here. She took a step toward the far wall and felt
another pang in her stomach. Here. Yes, here.
“Charlie!” John cried again. “Come on!”
“I have to,” she said softly. She went to the wall and put her hands on it, as
she’d done before. But this time the concrete was warm, and somehow
smooth despite the rough finish. I have to get inside. For a moment, she felt
like she was in two places at once: here, inside the little room, and on the
other side of the wall, desperate to get through. She drew back suddenly,
taking her hands off the wall as if it burned. The illusion flickered, then died

altogether.
The concrete wall was made of metal, and at the center was a door.
Charlie stared, blank with shock. This is the door. She’d been drawing it
without knowing what it was. Approximating over and over something she
had never seen. She stepped forward again and put her hands on the surface.
It was still warm. She pressed her cheek against it. “Are you in there?” she
called softly. “I have to get you out.”
Her heart was pounding, blood rushing in her ears so loudly she could
scarcely hear anything else. “Charlie! Charlie!” John and Jessica were both
calling her from outside, but their voices seemed as distant as memory. She
stood, not taking her hands from the metal but tracing her fingers along it. It
felt like letting go for even an instant would cause her pain. She brought her
hands to the crack in the wall: it had no handle, no knob, and no hinges. It
was just an outline, and now she ran her thumb up and down the side of it,
trying to find a trip, some trick that would make the door open and let her
through.
She heard John climb back inside and slowly approach her, keeping his
distance, as though he might scare her away.
“Charlie, if you don’t get out of here, you’ll die. Whatever’s behind that
door, it can’t give you back your family. You still have us.” Charlie looked at
John. His eyes were wide and frightened. She took a small step toward him.
“We’ve lost enough. Please, don’t make me lose you, too,” John pleaded.
Charlie stared at the ceiling as it trembled; clouds of smoke were pouring out
of the corridor they’d come from. John coughed heavily; he was choking. She
looked at him. He was terrified, unwilling to draw closer than he already was.
She turned again, and the world around her faded; she couldn’t hear John
behind her, or smell the smoke filling the air. She laid her hand flat against the
wall. A heartbeat. I feel a heartbeat. Though she made no intentional
movement, her body turned to the side. She tensed, committing to remain
where she stood, without ever making the decision. Something began to hiss:
the steady, gentle sound of air being released. From the base of the door came
a rhythmic clicking. Charlie closed her eyes.
“Charlie!” John grabbed her and turned her forcefully toward him, shaking
her out of her stupor. “Look at me. I’m not leaving you here.”
“I have to stay.”
“No, you have to come with us!” he cried. “You have to come with me.”
“No, I …” Charlie felt her voice trail off; she was losing strength.
“I love you,” John said. Charlie’s eyes stopped drifting: she fixed them on
him. “I’m taking you with me, right now.” He grabbed her hand roughly. He
was strong enough to pull her away by force, she knew, but he was waiting
for her to acknowledge him.
She looked into his eyes, trying to let them bring her back. It felt like trying

to awaken from a dream. John’s gaze was an anchor, and she held it, letting
him keep her steady, draw her back to him. “Okay,” she said quietly.
“Okay,” John repeated, heaving the words out in a sigh. He’d been holding
his breath. He walked backward, guiding her as he went.
She climbed to the top of the broken wall and paused, bracing herself
against the insistent pull of the door and what lay behind it. She took a deep
breath—then was torn backward by a colossal force. She ripped back through
the rocks, her arms pinned to her sides. Charlie screamed, struggling to get
away. Dimly she heard John shouting close by.
As she whipped her body back and forth against its grip, Charlie glimpsed
the immense thing that had caught her. The twisted Freddy stared blankly
forward, or at least what remained of it. It held her with one arm; the other
was gone, and wires hung from its shoulder like extra bits of sinew. Its plastic
casing had melted away, and what remained were metal plates and stays, a
skeleton with unnatural bulges and gaps in its frame where the collapse had
mangled it. Its face was a gaping hole, spilling teeth and wire that hung in
shapeless masses. Charlie couldn’t see it legs, and after a second she realized
they were gone. It had dragged itself, one-armed, through the rubble. Wires
spilled out of its body like guts, and when she saw its stomach, Charlie went
cold with terror.
Its chest had parted at the middle. Sharp, uneven teeth lined both sides.
Charlie kicked at the animatronic, but it did no good: it forced her instantly
into the chasm. The thing embraced her, pushing her deeper inside its chest as
they toppled backward together. The metal rib cage snapped shut: she was
caught.
“Charlie!” John was kneeling beside her, and she reached out through the
metal stays. He grabbed her hand. “Clay!” he shouted, “Jessica!” Jessica was
there in seconds; Charlie could see Clay struggling back through the narrow
opening.
“Wait!” Charlie cried as Jessica tried to pry the chest open. “The spring
locks, they’ll kill me if you touch the wrong thing!”
“But if we don’t get you out, you’ll die anyway!” Jessica shouted. Charlie
saw for the first time that the mouth wasn’t finished closing. It was layered
somehow, and metal plates began folding over her like petals of a horrid
flower. John started to stand, but Charlie tightened her hand around his.
“Don’t let go of me!” she cried, panicked. He dropped back to his knees
and pulled her hand to his chest. She stared at him, even as the metal plates
closed over her, threatening to seal her off. Jessica tried to jam them
delicately, without setting off the spring locks. “John—” Charlie gasped.
“Don’t,” he said roughly. “I’ve got you!”
The plates continued to slide down and meet in the center. Charlie’s arm
was trapped in the corner of the strange mouth, protruding from the only gap

where the plates didn’t meet. She looked around wildly: another layer was
closing. She was wedged into the suit haphazardly, her whole body crammed
into Freddy’s torso, and she could see nothing but dimming figures as more
layers of metal and plastic closed over her. Above her, Jessica was trying to
stop the next layer from emerging, and she felt Freddy’s mutilated body lurch.
“Jessica! Look out!” she screamed at the top of her lungs. Jessica leaped
back just in time to avoid Freddy’s violently swinging arm. The animatronic
was on its back, but it struck out randomly, beating Jessica and Clay away. Its
body rocked back and forth, and Charlie eyed the springs and robotic parts all
around her: she drew her knees up to her chest, trying to make herself smaller.
John let go of her hand, and she grabbed at his absence. She could no
longer see outside. “John!”
Freddy’s body shook, struck by a massive blow.
* * *
“Let go of her!” John screamed. Clay hefted a metal beam from the ground
and struck at Freddy’s head. The twisted bear tried to strike with its remaining
arm. Clay ducked out of the way and hit it again from the other side, out of
reach. Jessica was still at the creature’s chest, trying to find an opening to pry
at, but each layer melded seamlessly together. There was nothing to catch at.
John moved in next to her, trying to help. Clay struck at the head over and
over, making Freddy’s whole body jolt with every blow.
“I can’t get to her!” Jessica yelled. “She’s going to suffocate!” She tried to
steady Charlie’s trembling hand. Clay hit Freddy’s head once more with a
resounding crash, and they heard metal cracking as the head was knocked off
the creature’s body.
“Can we get her out through the neck?” John asked urgently. Freddy’s arm
continued to flail, but it had weakened, and was just rising and falling,
seeming to swing without purpose.
“Clay, help!” Jessica cried. He ran to take over, digging his fingers between
the plates to pry them open. Jessica continued holding Charlie’s hand, which
had gone limp. “Charlie!” Jessica cried. Charlie’s hand closed over hers
again, and Jessica gasped with relief. “John, Clay, she’s okay! Hurry! Charlie,
can you hear me? It’s Jessica.” There was no sound from inside Freddy’s
sealed chest, but Charlie held on tightly to Jessica’s hand as the others grimly
worked to free her.
Suddenly a single high-pitched click reverberated through the air. John and
Clay froze, their hands still hovering above Freddy’s chest. For a moment, the
air stood still, then the metal body convulsed violently. It launched itself off
the ground, and a ghastly crunch of metal pierced the air. All three pulled
back instinctively. Clay and John jumped away from the thing, and Jessica
scrambled backward, dropping Charlie’s hand.

The suit fell again and was still. The arm was splayed on the ground at an
awkward angle. The room was silent. “Charlie?” John said softly, then his
face went white. He ran to the place where her arm was exposed, falling hard
on his knees, and grabbed her hand in both his own. It was limp. John turned
it over and tapped her palm with his fingers. “Charlie? Charlie!”
“John,” Jessica said very quietly. “The blood.” He looked up at her,
confused, still holding on to Charlie. Then something wet dripped onto his
hand. There was blood running out of the suit and down Charlie’s arm. Her
skin was slick and red, except the hand he held. He watched, unable to look
away, as it dripped steadily from the suit, pooling on the ground and
beginning to seep into his jeans. It covered his hand and hers, until his skin
was slippery and he began to lose his grip. She was sliding away from him.
Sirens were suddenly nearby, and John realized vaguely that he’d been
hearing them in the distance. He looked dazedly up at Clay.
“I radioed them,” he said. “We aren’t safe in here.” Clay took his eyes off
the suit and looked up to study the ceiling. It was bowed and cracking, on the
verge of collapse. John didn’t move. People were shouting outside, and
flashlights bobbed up and down as they ran toward the crumbling building.
Jessica touched his shoulder. Breaks and cracks resounded through the space.
“John, we have to.” As if to mark her point, the floor shook again beneath
them and something crashed loudly not far away. Charlie’s hand didn’t move.
A uniformed officer pressed through the crack in the wall. “Chief Burke?”
“Thomson. We have to get the kids out, now.” Thomson nodded and
motioned to Jessica.
“Come on, miss.”
“John, come on,” Jessica managed to say, and a thunderous clatter sounded
from behind them. Clay looked to the officer again.
“Get them out of here.” Thomson took hold of Jessica’s arm and she tried
to shove him away.
“Don’t touch me!” she shouted, but the officer firmly pulled her up and
over the rubble, half dragging her outside. John only half heard the
commotion, then someone’s hands were on his shoulders as well. He batted
them away, not looking around.
“We’re leaving,” Clay said in a low voice.
“Not without Charlie,” John responded. Clay took a deep breath.
John saw him signal someone from the corner of his eye, then he was
grabbed forcefully by two large men and dragged toward the opening.
“No!” he shouted. “Let me go!” They shoved him roughly over the broken
wall, then Clay struggled out behind them.
“Is everyone out?” a female officer called.
“Yes,” Clay said hesitantly, but with the ring of authority.
“NO!” John shouted. He broke free of the officers holding him back and

ran for the opening again. He had one foot through the gap, then stopped dead
as a sweeping flashlight briefly illuminated the room in front of him.
A dark-haired woman knelt in the pool of blood, holding Charlie’s limp
hand. She looked up sharply and met his eyes with a piercing black gaze.
Before John could move or speak, hands grabbed his shoulders again and
drew him back, and then the whole house collapsed before them.

We don’t know for sure,” Jessica said, firmly setting down the fork she’d
been playing with on the diner table. It made a disappointing click.
“Don’t do this,” John warned. He didn’t look up from the menu, though he
hadn’t read a word since he picked it up.
“It’s just, all that we saw was, you know, blood. People can survive a lot of
things. Dave—Springtrap, whatever he wants to call himself—he survived
one of those suits, twice. For all we know she might be trapped in the rubble.
We should go back. We could—”
“Jessica, stop.” John closed the menu and put it down on the table. “Please.
I can’t listen to this. We both saw it happen. We both know she couldn’t have
…” Jessica opened her mouth again, about to interrupt. “I said, stop. Don’t
you think that I want to believe that she’s okay? I cared about her, too. I cared
about her a lot. There is nothing I want more than for her to somehow have
escaped. For her to drive up in that ancient car and get out all furious and say,
‘Hey, why’d you leave me behind?’ But we saw the blood: there was too
much. I held her hand, and it didn’t feel like anything. As soon as I touched
her, I just—Jessica, I knew. And you know it, too.”
Jessica picked up her fork again and twirled it between her fingers, not
meeting his eyes. “I feel like we’re waiting for something to happen,” she said
quietly.
John picked up the menu again. “I know. But I think that’s just how this
feels.” From behind him, he heard the waitress approach for the third time.
“We don’t know yet,” he said without looking up. “Why am I even looking at
this?” John set the menu back down and covered his face with his hands.
“Can I join you?” John looked up. An unfamiliar, brown-haired young man
slid into the booth next to Jessica and across from John.
“Hey, Arty,” Jessica said with a weak smile.
“Hey,” he said, glancing from her to John and back again. John said
nothing. “Everyone okay?” Arty asked finally. “I heard there was some kind
of accident. Where’s Charlie?”
Jessica looked down, tapping the fork on the table. John met the
newcomer’s eyes, then shook his head. Arty blanched, and John looked out
the window. The parking lot outside blurred as he fixed his gaze on the
smudged and streaky glass.
“The last thing she said to me was …” John lightly touched his fist to the
table. “‘Don’t let go of me.’” He turned back to the window.
“John,” Jessica whispered.
“And I did. I let go of her. And she died alone.” There was silence for a few
moments.
“I can’t believe it,” Arty said, his brow furrowed. “We had just started
dating, you know?”
Jessica kept her face smooth, and John turned his thousand-yard stare on
Arty. The boy faltered. “I mean, we were going to. I think. She really liked
me, anyway.” He looked to Jessica, who nodded.
“She liked you, Arty,” she said. John turned back to the window.
“I’m sure she did,” he said evenly.
Random thoughts swirled through his mind. The mess of her room. The
pang of concern when he saw her childhood toy, Theodore the stuffed rabbit,
torn apart. Charlie, what was wrong? There was so much more he wanted to
ask her. Those blind faces with their smooth, nearly featureless faces and their
couplet word games. Something—everything—about them had disturbed him,
and now that he pictured them again, he was bothered for another reason.
They looked like William Afton’s designs—the blank faces with no eyes.
Charlie, what made you think of that?
Jessica made an indistinct cry, and John startled back to the present to see
her racing to the door, where Marla had appeared. He got up more slowly and
followed her, with a sense of déjà vu. He was waiting his turn as Marla
hugged Jessica close, stroking her hair and whispering something John
couldn’t hear.
Marla released Jessica and turned to him. “John,” she said, taking both his
hands. The sorrow in her eyes was what broke him. He leaned in and hugged
her close, hiding his face in her hair until he could compose himself. When
his breathing had steadied, she pushed him gently back and took his arm.
They all went back to the table where Arty waited, peering uncertainly over
the side of the booth. They sat down again. Marla slid in next to John and
looked from him to Jessica. “You have to tell me what happened,” she said
quietly. Jessica nodded, letting her hair fall over her face for a minute in a
shiny brown curtain.
“Yeah, I want to know, too,” Arty piped up, and Marla glanced at him as if
only just registering his presence.
“Hi,” she said, sounding slightly puzzled. “I’m Marla.”
“Arty. Charlie and I were—” He glanced at John. “We were good friends.”
Marla nodded. “Well, I wish we were meeting under different
circumstances. Jessica? John? Please, tell me.”
They glanced at each other. John looked to the window again. He was
content to let Jessica do the talking but felt an obligation—not to talk to
Marla, but to talk about Charlie. “Charlie was chasing something from her
past,” John said, his voice calm. “She found it, and it didn’t let her leave.”
“There was a building collapse,” Jessica added. “Her father’s house.”
“Charlie didn’t make it out,” John said roughly. He cleared his throat and
reached for the glass of water in front of him.
John vaguely heard Marla and Jessica exchanging words of comfort, but
his mind was elsewhere. The woman, kneeling in the pool of Charlie’s blood,
holding her hand. He had only glimpsed her for a moment; she had looked
almost as surprised to see him as he was to see her. But there was something
familiar about her.
He turned away from the others again and closed his eyes, trying to picture
it. Dark hair, dark eyes. She looked severe and unafraid, even with the ground
shaking and the building tumbling down over her head. I know her. The
woman he remembered looked different, younger, but her face was the same
… Suddenly he had it. The last day I saw you, Charlie, back when we were
kids. She came to pick you up from school, and the next day you weren’t there,
and the next day, and the day after that. Then even us kids began to hear the
rumors, that your father had done what he did. And that’s when I realized I
would never see you again. John shivered.
“John, what’s wrong?” Marla said sharply, then blushed. “I mean, what are
you thinking?”
“Her aunt was there,” he said slowly. “Her aunt Jen.”
“What?” Marla said. “Where?”
“They hadn’t spoken in months,” Jessica said doubtfully.
“I know,” John said. “But she was there. When I ran back, just before they
pulled me away, I saw her. With Charlie.”
The thought struck him like a blow across the chest, and he looked out the
window again so that he wouldn’t have to meet anyone’s eyes. “Charlie’s aunt
Jen was there,” he repeated to the dirty pane of glass.
“Maybe Clay called her,” Jessica offered. John didn’t respond. No one
spoke for a long moment.
“I think it’s best not to look for more mysteries,” Marla said slowly.
“Charlie was—”
“Are you all ready to order?” The waitress asked brightly. John turned to
look at her with impatience in his eyes, but Marla cut him off.
“Four coffees,” she said firmly. “Four eggs and toast, scrambled.”
“Thanks, Marla,” John whispered. “I’m not sure if I can eat, though.”
She glanced at the rest of them. Arty looked briefly as if he wanted to say
something, then he cast his eyes down at the table. The woman departed, and
Marla looked around. “We all have to eat. And you can’t sit around in a diner
all day without ordering anything.”
“I’m glad you’re here, Marla,” John said. She nodded.
“We all love Charlie,” she said, looking at each of them in turn. “There’s
never a right thing to say, is there? Nothing ever makes it okay, because it’s
not.”
“All those crazy experiments,” Jessica said suddenly. “I didn’t understand,
but she was so excited about them, and now she’ll never get to finish.”
“It’s not fair,” Marla said softly.
“So what do we do?” Jessica said with a plaintive note in her voice. She
looked at Marla like she must have the answer.
“Jessica, sweetie,” Marla said. “All anyone can do is hold on to the Charlie
that we all loved.”
“It’s over,” John said hoarsely, turning away from the window abruptly.
“That … that psychopath murdered her, just like he did Michael and all those
other kids. She was the most fascinating, the most amazing person I have ever
known, and she died for nothing.”
“She did not die for nothing!” Marla snapped, leaning in toward him. Rage
flashed in her eyes. “No one dies for nothing, John. Everyone’s life has a
meaning. Everyone has a death, and I hate it that this was hers. Do you hear
me? I hate it! But we can’t change it. All we can do is remember Charlie, and
honor Charlie’s life, from the beginning to the very end.”
John held her stormy gaze for a long moment, then broke away and looked
down at his folded hands on the table. She mirrored the movement and placed
one hand over his.
Jessica gasped, and he turned back to the table wearily. “What, Jessica?”
John asked. Her nervous energy was beginning to exhaust him. She didn’t
answer, but gave him an incredulous look, and turned back to the window.
Marla leaned past John, craning her neck to see. Reluctantly he looked, too,
letting his eyes focus for the first time on the parking lot outside the window,
and not the pane of glass itself.
It was a car. The woman driving killed the engine and got out. She was slim
and tall, with long, straight brown hair that glistened in the sun. She was
wearing a bright red, knee-length dress with black combat boots, and she
strode purposefully toward the diner. They all watched motionless, as if the
slightest sound might rupture the illusion and send her away. The woman was
almost at the door. Arty said it first:
“Charlie?”
Marla shook her head. She leaped up and turned, calling from the seat,
“Charlie!”
She ran for the door, and Jessica was quick on her heels, crying out after
her. They rushed to the doorway to meet her just as she walked in.
John stayed where he was, craning his neck to see the door. Arty seemed
confused, his mouth open slightly and his brow furrowed. John watched for a
steady moment, then turned away decisively, facing across the table with a
grave expression. He didn’t speak until Arty met his gaze.
“That’s not Charlie.”

Charlie!” John clambered through the rubble toward the 
place where she’d been, choking on the dust of the 
explosion. The ruins shifted beneath his feet, and he 
stumbled over a block of concrete and caught himself just 
before falling, scraping his hands raw as he grabbed 
frantically at the broken surface. He reached it, the place 
where she’d been—he could feel her presence beneath him. 
He took hold of an immense block of concrete and hefted it 
with all his strength. He managed to tilt it from the pile and 
overturn it, where it fell with a thud, rattling the ground he 
stood on. Over his head, a steel beam creaked, wavering 
precariously. 

“Charlie!” John cried her name again as he shoved 
another block of concrete away. “Charlie, |’m coming!” He 
was gasping for breath, moving the remains of the house 

with desperate, adrenaline-fueled strength, but the 
adrenaline was running thin. He set his jaw and pressed on. 
His palms slipped as he tried to lift the next block, and when 
he looked he realized, dazedly, that his hands left streaks of 
blood wherever they touched. He wiped his palms on his 
Jeans and tried again. This time the broken concrete moved, 
and he balanced it on his thighs and took it three steps 
away, then dropped it on a pile of debris. It crashed down 
onto the rubble and shattered rock and glass beneath it, 
starting an avalanche of its own, and then, beneath the 
sounds of wreckage, he heard her whisper: “... John...” 

“Charlie ...” His heart stopped beating as he whispered 
back to her, and again the rubble moved under his feet. This 
time he fell, landing hard on his back, knocking the wind out 
of him. He struggled to inhale, his lungs useless, then 
haltingly he began to breathe. He sat up, light-headed, and 
saw what the collapse had revealed: He was in the little, 
hidden room in Charlie’s childhood house. Before him was a 
plain, smooth metal wall. At the center was a door. 

It was only an outline, without hinges or a handle, but he 
knew what it was because Charlie had known, when she 
stopped running in the midst of their escape, and pressed 
her cheek against the surface, calling to someone, or 
something, inside. 

“John...” she whispered his name again, and the 
sound seemed to come from everywhere at once, bouncing 
off the walls of the room. John got to his feet and put his 
hands on the door; it was cool to the touch. He pressed his 
cheek to it, just as Charlie had, and it grew colder, like it 
was draining the warmth from his skin. John pulled back and 
rubbed the cold spot on his face, still watching the door as 
the shiny metal began to dull before his eyes. Its color paled 


and then the door itself began to thin, its solidity vanishing 
until it looked like frosted glass, and John saw there was a 
shadow behind the glass, the figure of a person. The figure 
stepped closer, the door clarifying until he could almost see 
through it. He moved closer, mirroring the figure on the 
other side. It had a face, sleek and polished, its eyes like a 
statue’s, sculpted, but unseeing. John peered through the 
door between them, his breath clouding the near- 
transparent barrier, then suddenly the eyes snapped open. 

The figure stood placidly before him, the eyes fixed on 
nothing. They were clouded, and unmoving—dead. 
Someone laughed, a frantic, mirthless sound that echoed in 
the small, sealed room, and John looked wildly around for 
the source. The laughter rose in pitch, growing louder and 
louder. John covered his ears with his hands as the piercing 
noise became unbearable. “CHARLIE!” he cried again. 

John jerked awake, his heart racing: the laughter went 
on, following him out of the dream. Disoriented, his eyes 
darted around the room, then lit on the TV, where a clown’s 
painted face filled the screen, caught in a convulsive fit of 
laughter. John sat up, rubbing his cheek where his watch 
had been pressing into it. He checked the time, then 
breathed a sigh of relief—he had just enough time to get to 
work. He sat back, taking a moment to catch his breath. On 
the TV screen, a local news anchor was holding a mic up for 
a man dressed as a circus clown, complete with a painted 
face, a red nose, and a rainbow-colored wig. Around his 
neck was a collar that looked like it belonged ina 
Renaissance painting, and he was wearing a full yellow 
clown suit, with red pompoms for buttons. 

“So, tell me,” the anchor said brightly. “Did you already 
have this costume, or did you make it especially for the 


grand opening?” 
John switched the TV off, and headed for the shower. 

He’d been at it all day, but the noise was still unbearable: a 
rattling, clanging din punctuated by shouts and the 
intermittent, earthshaking clatter of jackhammers. John 
closed his eyes, trying to blot it out: the vibrations 
resounded in his chest, filling him up, and amid the noise 
the sound of desperate laughter suddenly rang in his ears. 
The figure from his dream came to him again, just out of 
sight, and he felt as though, if he just turned his head the 
right way, he could see the face behind the door ... 

“John!” 

John turned: Luis was standing a foot away, giving him a 
puzzled stare. “I called your name three times,” he said. 
John shrugged, gesturing at the chaos around them. 

“Hey, some of the guys are going out after this; you 
coming?” Luis asked. John hesitated. “Come on, it’ll be good 
for you—all you do is work and sleep.” He laughed good- 
naturedly and slapped John on the shoulder. 

“Right, good for me.” John smiled back, then looked at 
the ground as the expression faded. “I just have so much 
going on right now.” He tried to sound convincing. 

“Right, lot’s going on. Just let me know if you change 
your mind.” He clapped John on the shoulder again and 
headed back to the forklift. John watched him stride away. It 
hadn’t been the first time John had turned them down; not 
the second time or the third; and it occurred to him that 
eventually they would stop trying. That there’d be a 


moment when they would all just give up. Maybe that would 
be for the best. 

“John!” another voice called. 

Now what? 

It was the foreman, shouting at him from the door of his 
standalone office, a trailer that had been brought onsite for 
the duration of the construction and sat precariously ona 
dirt ledge. 

John trudged across the construction zone, ducking 
through a vinyl sheet in the trailer’s doorway. Moments later 
he was standing across a folding table from the foreman, 
the plastic wood-textured paneling barely holding to the 
walls surrounding him. 

“I’ve got a couple guys out there telling me you’re 
distracted.” 

“I’m just focused on my job, that’s all,” John said, forcing 
a smile and trying to prevent his frustration from leaking 
out. Oliver smiled, unconvincingly. 

“Focused,” Oliver mimicked. John dropped the smile, 
startled. Oliver sighed. “Look, | gave you a chance because 
your cousin said you’re a hard worker. | overlooked the fact 
that you walked off your last job and never came back. You 
know | took a risk on you?” 

John swallowed. “Yes, sir, | know.” 

“Stop with the ‘sir.’ Just listen to me.” 

“Look, | do what I’m told. | don’t understand the 
problem.” 

“Your reactions are slow; you look like you’re 
daydreaming out there. You're not a team player. 

“What?” 

“This is an active construction zone. If you’re in la-la 
land, or you’re not thinking about the safety of the other 


” 


men out there, someone's going to get hurt, or killed. I’m 
not saying you have to share secrets and braid one 
another’s hair; I’m saying you have to be on the team. They 
have to trust that you’re not going to let them down when it 
counts.” John gave an understanding nod. “This is a good 
job, John. | think these are good guys out there, too. Work 
isn’t easy to come by these days, and | need you to get your 
head in the game. Because next time | see it in the clouds 
... Well, just don’t put me in that position. Understand?” 

“Yeah, | understand,” John said numbly. He didn’t move, 
standing on the shag brown carpet that came with the 
portable office as though waiting to be dismissed from 
detention. 

“Okay. Get out.” John went. The dressing-down had taken 
up the last few minutes of his workday; he helped Sergei put 
away some of the equipment, then headed to his car with a 
muttered good-bye. 

“Hey!” Sergei called after him. John stopped. “Last call!” 

“l...” John broke off, spotting Oliver out of the corner of 
his eye. “Maybe next time,” he said. 

Sergei pressed. “Come on, it’s my excuse to avoid that 
new kid’s place—my daughter’s been begging to go there 
all week. Lucy’s taking her, but robots creep me out.” 

John paused, and the world grew silent around him. 
“What place?” John said. 

“So, you coming?” Sergei asked again. 

John took a few steps backward, as if he’d come too close 
to a ledge. “Maybe another time,” John said, and walked 
decidedly to his car. It was old and brownish-red, something 
that might have been cool in high school. Now it was just a 
reminder that he was still a kid who hadn’t moved on, a 
mark of status that had become a mark of shame within the 


space of a year. He sat heavily, a plume of dust shooting out 
the sides of the car seat as he dropped onto it. His hands 
were Shaking. “Get a grip.” He closed his eyes, and clutched 
the wheel, steadying himself. “This is life now, and you can 
do it,” he whispered, then opened his eyes and sighed. 
“Sounds like something lame my dad would have said.” He 
turned the key. 

The drive home should have been ten minutes; but the 
route he took was closer to half an hour, as it avoided 
driving through town. If he didn’t drive through town, there 
was no risk of running into people he didn’t want to talk to. 
More importantly, he didn’t risk running into the people he 
did want to talk to. Be a team player. He couldn’t muster 
real resentment toward Oliver. John wasn’t a team player, 
not anymore. For almost six months, he had been coming 
and going from home to work like a train on a track, 
stopping to buy food now and then, but not much else. He 
spoke only when necessary; avoided eye contact. He was 
startled when people spoke to him, whether they were 
coworkers saying hello, or strangers asking the time. He 
made conversation, but he was getting better at speaking 
while walking away. He was always polite, while also making 
it clear he had somewhere to be—made obvious, when 
necessary, by suddenly turning in the opposite direction. 
Sometimes he felt like he was fading away, and it was 
jarring, and disappointing, to be reminded that he could still 
be seen. 

He pulled into the lot of his apartment complex, a two- 
story building not really meant for long-term tenants. There 
was a light in the window of the manager’s office: he had 
tried for a month to track the open hours, then given up, 
concluding that there was no pattern. 


He grabbed an envelope from the glove compartment 
and headed toward the door. He knocked, and there was no 
response, though inside he could hear sounds of movement. 
He knocked again, and this time the door opened partially: 
an old woman with the skin of a lifelong smoker peered out 
at him. “Hey, Delia.” John smiled; she didn’t smile back. 
“Rent check.” John handed an envelope to her. “I know it’s 
late. | came by yesterday, but no one was here.” 

“Was it during business hours?” Delia peered into the 
envelope carefully as though suspicious of what might be 
inside. 

“The lights were off, So...” 

“Then it wasn’t during business hours.” Delia bared her 
teeth, but it wasn’t really a smile. “Il Saw you hung up a 
plant,” she said abruptly. 

“Oh yeah.” John peered over his shoulder toward his 
apartment, as though he might be able to see it from where 
they stood. “It’s nice to take care of something, right?” John 
tried to smile again but quickly gave up, engulfed ina 
vacuum of judgment that allowed for no levity. “That’s 
allowed, right? To have a plant?” 

“Yes, you can have a plant.” Delia took a step back inside 
and looked poised to close the door. “People don’t usually 
settle in here, that’s all. Usually there is a house, then a 
wife, and then the plant.” 

“Right.” John looked down at his shoes. “It’s just been a 
rough”—he began, but the door closed with a firm thunk 
—“vyear.” 

John considered the door for a minute, then headed to 
the ground-floor apartment at the front of the complex, now 
his for another month. It was a single-bedroom unit with a 
full bath and half a kitchen. He kept the blinds up while he 


was away, to show that he had nothing: the area was prone 
to burglaries, and it seemed like a safe bet to telegraph the 
fact that there was nothing to steal here. 

Once inside, John locked the door behind him and 
carefully slid the chain into place. His apartment was cool 
and dark, and quiet. He sighed and rubbed his temples; the 
headache was still there, but he was growing accustomed to 
that. 

The place was sparsely furnished—it had come that way 
—and the only personal touch he had added to the living 
room was to stack four cardboard boxes full of books against 
the wall below the window. He glanced at them with a 
disappointed familiarity. He went to the bedroom and sat 
down on his bed, the springs creaking stiffly beneath him. 
He didn’t bother turning on the light; there was enough 
daylight still leaking through the small dingy window above 
his bed. 

John looked toward his dresser, where a familiar face 
looked back at him: a toy rabbit’s head, its body nowhere to 
be found. 

“What did you do today?” John said, meeting the plush 
rabbit’s eyes as if it might show a spark of recognition. 
Theodore just stared back blankly, his eyes dark and 
lifeless. “You look terrible; worse than me.” John stood and 
approached the rabbit’s head; he couldn’t ignore the smell 
of mothballs and dirty fabric. John’s smile faded, and he 
grabbed the head by the ears and held it in the air. Time to 
throw you away. He considered it almost every day. He 
clenched his jaw, then set it back on the dresser carefully 
and turned away, not wanting to look at it further. 

He closed his eyes, not expecting sleep to come, but hop- 
ing. He hadn’t slept well the night before, or the night 
before that. He had come to dread sleep; he put it off as 
long as he could, walking miles of road until late at night, 
returning home and trying to read, or just staring at the 
wall. The familiarity was frustrating. He grabbed his pillow 
and went back to the living room. He lay down on the couch, 
swinging his legs over the arm so he could fit. The silence in 
the little apartment was beginning to ring in his ears, and he 
grabbed the remote off the floor and turned on the TV. The 
screen was black and white, and the reception was terrible: 
he could scarcely make out faces through the static, but the 
chatter of what sounded like a talk show was rapid and 
cheerful. He turned the volume low and settled back, staring 
at the ceiling and half listening to the television voices until 
slowly, he drifted into sleep. 

Her arm was limp, the only part of her he could see 
dangling from the twisted metal suit. Blood ran in red rivers 
down her skin, pooling on the ground. Charlie was all alone. 
He could hear her voice again if he tried: “Don’t let go! 
John!” She called my name. And then that thing—He 
shuddered, hearing again the sound of the animatronic suit 
snapping and crunching. He stared at Charlie’s lifeless arm 
as if the world around them had disappeared, and as the 
noise echoed in his head, his mind conjured up thoughts 
unbidden: The crunching sounds were her bones. The 
tearing was everything else. 

John opened his eyes with a start. A few feet away, a 
studio audience laughed, and he looked at the TV, its static 
and chatter bringing him back to waking life. 

John sat up, rolling his neck to work out kinks: the couch 
was too small, and his back was cramped. His head ached, 


and he was exhausted but restless, the shot of adrenaline 
still working its way through his system. He went out, 
locking the door forcefully behind him, and breathed in the 
night air. 

He started down the road, heading toward town and 
whatever might still be open. The lights on the road were far 
apart, and there was no sidewalk, just a shallow dirt 
shoulder. Few cars passed him, but when they did, they 
loomed up from around corners or cresting hills, blinding 
him with headlights and rushing by with a force that 
sometimes threatened to knock him back. He had begun to 
notice himself edging ever closer to the road as he walked, 
playing a halfhearted game of chicken. When he found 
himself too far out, he would always take deliberate steps 
back to the shoulder, and it was always with a secret, 
sinking disappointment in himself that he would do so. 

As he approached town, lights pierced the darkness once 
again, and he shielded his eyes and took a step back from 
the road. This one slowed as it passed, then came to a 
sudden stop. John turned and walked a few steps toward it 
as the driver’s window rolled down. 

“John?” someone called. The car went into reverse and 
haphazardly pulled onto the shoulder; John jumped out of its 
path. A woman stepped out and took a few quick steps 
toward him, as if she might try to hug him, but he stayed 
planted where he was, his arms stiff at his sides, and she 
stopped a few feet away. “John, it’s me!” Jessica said with a 
smile that quickly faded. “What are you doing out here?” 
she asked. She was wearing short sleeves, and she rubbed 
her arms against the night air, glancing back and forth 
along the near-deserted road. 


“Well, | could ask you the same thing,” he answered as 
though she had accused him of something. Jessica pointed 
over John’s shoulder. “Gas.” She smiled brightly at him, and 
he couldn’t help but mirror her a little. He had almost 
forgotten this ability of hers, to turn on cheerful goodwill like 
a faucet, splashing it all over everyone. “How have you 
been?” she asked cautiously. 

“Fine. Working, mostly.” He gestured down at the dusty 
work clothes he hadn’t bothered to change out of. “What’s 
new with you?” he asked, suddenly aware of the absurdity 
of the conversation as cars passed nearby. “I really have to 
be going. Have a good night.” He turned and began to walk 
away without giving her a chance to speak. 

“I miss seeing you around,” Jessica called. “And so does 
she.” 

John paused, digging at the dirt with one foot. 

“Listen.” Jessica took a few quick steps to catch up to 
him. “Carlton’s going to be in town for a couple of weeks; 
it’s spring break. We’re all getting together.” She waited 
expectantly, but he didn’t respond. 

“He’s dying to show off his new cosmopolitan persona,” 
Jessica added brightly. “When | talked to him on the phone 
last week, he was faking a Brooklyn accent to see if I’d 
notice.” She forced a giggle. John smiled fleetingly. 

“Who else is going to be there?” he asked, looking 
directly at her for the first time since she got out of the car. 
Jessica’s eyes narrowed. 

“John, you have to talk to her sometime.” 

“Why is that?” he said brusquely, and started walking 
again. 

“John, wait!” Behind him, John heard her break into a run. 
She caught up quickly, slowing to jog beside him, matching 


his pace. “I can do this all day,” she warned, but John didn’t 
answer. 

“You have to talk to her,” Jessica repeated. He gave her a 
Sharp look. 

“Charlie’s dead,” he said harshly, the words rasping in 
his throat. It had been a long time since he spoke the words 
aloud. Jessica stopped in her tracks; he kept going. 

“John, at least talk to me.” 

He didn’t answer. 

“You're hurting her,” she added. He stopped walking. 
“Don’t you understand what you’re doing to her? After what 
she went through? It’s insane, John. | don’t Know what that 
night did to you, but | Know what it did to Charlie. And you 
know what? | don’t think anything hurt as badly as having 
you refuse to speak to her. To say she’s dead.” 

“| saw her die.” John stared out into the city lights. 

“No, you didn’t,” Jessica said, then hesitated. “Look, I’m 
worried about you.” 

“I’m just lost.” John turned to her. “And after what I’ve 
been through, after what we’ve been through, that’s not an 
unreasonable reaction.” He waited a moment for her to 
respond, then looked away. 

“| get it. | really do. | thought she was dead, too.” John 
opened his mouth to speak, but she pressed on. “I thought 
she was dead until she turned up, a/ive.” Jessica pulled at 
John’s shoulder until he met her eyes again. “I’ve seen her,” 
Jessica said, her voice breaking. “I’ve talked to her. It /s her. 
And this ...” She let go of his shoulder and waved her hand 
over him as though casting a spell. “7his thing that you’re 
doing, that’s what’s killing her.” 

“It’s not her,” John whispered. 


“Okay,” Jessica snapped, and turned on her heel. She 
walked back to the car and after a few moments, pulled 
back out into the road, then made a screeching U-turn. John 
stayed where he was. Jessica roared past him, then stopped 
abruptly, her breaks squealing, then backed up to where he 
stood. “We’re meeting at Clay’s house on Saturday,” she 
said tiredly. “Please.” He looked at her; she wasn’t crying, 
but her eyes were shiny, her face red. He nodded. 

“Maybe.” 

“Good enough for me. I'll see you there!” Jessica said, 
then she drove off without another word, the engine roaring 
in the quiet of the night. 

“| said maybe,” John muttered into the darkness. 





The pencil squeaked against the paper as the man at the 
desk carefully filled out the form in front of him. He paused 
suddenly, a wave of dizziness overtaking him. The letters on 
the page were fuzzy, and he adjusted his reading glasses, 
his head swimming. The glasses made no difference, and he 
took them off and rubbed his eyes. Then, just as suddenly 
as it had come, the sensation was gone: the room righted 
itself, and the words on the page were perfectly clear. He 
scratched his beard, still disconcerted, then began to 
steadily write again. A ring sounded and the front door 
opened. 

“Yes, sir?” he barked without looking up. 

“! wanted to have a look around the yard.” A woman’s 
voice echoed softly. 


“Oh, pardon me, ma’am.” The man looked up and smiled 
momentarily, then went back to his form, writing as he 
talked. “Scrap is fifty cents a pound. It might be more if you 
find a specific part, but we can see when you come back in. 
Just go have a look around; you have to bring your own 
tools, but we can help you load it up when you’re ready to 
leave.” 

“I’m looking for something specific.” The woman peered 
down at him, observing his name tag. “Bob,” she added 
belatedly. 

“Well, | don’t Know what to tell you.” He set his pencil 
down, then reclined and crossed his arms behind his head. 
“It’s a dump.” He laughed. “We try to at least separate the 
junk cars from the tin cans, but what you see is what you 
get.” 

“Bob, you received several truckloads of scrap metal on 
this date, and from this location.” The woman set a piece of 
paper down on top of the form Bob had been working on. 
Bob picked it up and adjusted his reading glasses, then 
looked up at her over them. 

“Well, as | said; it’s a dump,” he said slowly, growing 
more concerned as the moments passed. “I might be able to 
point you in the right direction; | mean, we don’t catalog the 
Stuff.” 

The woman walked around the side of the desk, stepping 
up beside Bob’s chair, and he straightened nervously in his 
seat. “| hear you boys had some trouble here last night,” 
she said casually. 

“No trouble.” Bob furrowed his brow. “Some kids snuck 
in; it happens.” 

“That’s not what | heard.” The woman studied a picture 
on the wall. “Your daughters?” She asked lightly. 


“Yes, two and five.” 

“They are beautiful.” She paused. “Do you treat them 
well?” Bob was taken aback. 

“Of course, | do,” he said, trying to hide his indignation. 
There was a long pause; the woman tilted her head, still 
looking at the picture. 

“| heard you called the police because you thought 
someone was trapped in the scrap heaps out there,” she 
said. Bob didn’t answer. “I heard”—the woman continued, 
leaning in closer to the picture—“that you thought you 
heard screaming, and sounds of distress and panic. 
Something was trapped; a child was trapped, you thought. 
Maybe several.” 

“Look, we run a clean business and we have a good 
reputation.” 

“I’m not disputing your reputation. Quite the opposite. | 
think what you did was honorable, running to the rescue in 
the middle of the night, cutting your legs on jagged scraps 
of metal as you ran blindly through the yard.” 

“How do you ...” Bob’s voice trembled, and he stopped 
talking. He moved his legs under the desk, hoping to hide 
the bandages that bulged out visibly under both pant legs. 

“What did you find?” the woman asked. 

He didn’t answer. 

“What was there?” she pressed. “When you got on your 
hands and knees and crawled through the beams and the 
wire? What was there?” 

“Nothing,” he whispered. “Nothing was there.” 

“And the police? They found nothing?” 

“No, nothing. There wasn’t anything. | went out again 
today just to be ...” He spread his hands on the desk in front 
of him, collecting his nerves. “We run a good business,” he 


said firmly. “Il don’t feel comfortable talking about this. If I’m 
in some kind of trouble, then | think—” 

“You're not in any trouble, Bob, as long as you can do me 
one little favor.” 

“What's that?” 

“Simple.” The woman leaned over Bob, bracing herself 
on the arms of his chair, so close her face almost touched 
his. “Take me there.” 


John pulled into the parking lot at the construction site and 
immediately saw Oliver standing in front of the gate of the 
chain-link fence. His arms were crossed, and he was 
chewing on something, his face grim. When it became clear 
that he wasn’t going to move out of the way, John slowed to 
a stop and got out. 

“What's going on?” he asked. Oliver continued to chew 
on whatever was in his mouth. 

“| have to let you go,” he said at last. “You're late, 
again.” 

“I’m not late,” John protested, then glanced at his watch. 
“I mean, not by much,” he amended. “Come on, Oliver. It 
won't happen again, I’m sorry.” 

“Me too,” Oliver said. “Good luck, John.” 

“Oliver!” John called. Oliver let himself in through the 
gate and glanced back one more time before walking away. 
John leaned against his car for a moment. Several coworkers 
were staring at him, suddenly turning away as John noticed 
them. John got in his car and headed back the way he had 
come. 


When he returned to his apartment, John sat down on the 
edge of his bed and buried his face in his hands. “Now 
what?” he wondered aloud, and glanced around the room. 
His eyes lit on his only decoration. “You still look terrible,” 
he said to Theodore’s disembodied head. “And you’re still in 
worse shape than me.” The notion of attending the party 
that night suddenly returned to him. The thought of it set off 
a nervous fluttering in his stomach, but he wasn’t sure what 
it was—anxiety, or excitement. / thought she was dead, too, 
Jessica had said the night before. /’ve seen her. I’ve talked 
to her. It is her. 

John closed his eyes. What if it is her? He saw it again, 
the moment he always saw: the shuddering suit, Charlie 
trapped inside as it crunched and jerked—and then her 
hand, and the blood. She couldn’t have survived that. But 
another image came to mind, unbidden—Dave, who became 
Springtrap: he had survived what happened to Charlie. He 
had worn the yellow rabbit suit like it was a second skin, and 
had paid for it twice: the scars that covered his torso like a 
shirt of gruesome lace told the story of one narrow escape, 
and the second ... Charlie had killed him when she tripped 
the spring locks, or so they all believed. No one could have 
survived what they saw. And yet, he had returned. For an 
instant, John pictured Charlie, scarred and broken, yet, 
miraculously, alive. “But that doesn’t sound like the person 
Jessica saw,” John spoke clearly to Theodore. “Someone 
broken and scarred; that’s not who Jessica was describing.” 
He shook his head. “That’s not the person | saw at the 
diner.” 

The next day—she looked like she’d just stepped out of a 
fairy tale. John caught himself and shook his head, trying to 
focus on the present. He really didn’t know what had 


happened to Charlie. He felt himself edging toward the 
glimmer of hope. Maybe | was wrong. Maybe she’s all right. 
It was what he’d wished for—what anyone wishes for in the 
throes of grief: Let it not have happened. Let everything be 
all right. The precarious ledge became solid ground, and 
John felt a weight lifted, his neck and shoulders relaxing 
from a cramped position he had not been aware of. The 
fatigue from so many months of misspent sleep caught up 
to him all at once. 

He looked at Theodore; he was clutching the rabbit's 
head so tightly that his knuckles had gone white. He slowly 
released the toy, propping it up on the pillow. 

“I’m not going,” he said. “Il was never really considering 
it, | just wanted Jessica to leave me alone.” He held his 
breath for a moment, then let out a deep sigh. “Right?” He 
said, his tone becoming more agitated. “What would | even 
say to these people?” Theodore stared at him blankly. 

“Damn.” John sighed. 

The fluttering in John’s stomach grew worse the closer he 
came to Clay’s house. He checked the dashboard clock—it 
was only six. Maybe no one will be there yet, he thought, 
but as he made his way down the winding road toward their 
house, cars lined both sides of the street for half a block. 
John wedged his car between a pickup truck and a rusted 
sedan almost as beat-up as his own, then got out and 
headed toward the house. 

All the windows of the three-story house were 
illuminated, standing out against the trees like a beacon. 
John hung back, staying out of the light. He could hear 


music from inside, and laughter; the sound of it made him 
balk. He forced himself to walk the rest of the way to the 
door, but stopped again when he reached it: Going inside 
felt like an enormous decision, something that would 
change everything. Then again, so did walking away. 

He raised his hand to ring the bell, then hesitated; before 
he could decide, the door swung open in front of him. John 
blinked at the sudden light and found himself face-to-face 
with Clay Burke, who looked as startled as he was. 

“John!” Clay reached out and gripped John with both 
arms, pulled him in and gave him a hug, then quickly 
pushed him back to where he started and firmly patted his 
shoulders. “Right, come in!” Clay stepped back to clear the 
way, and John followed him in, looking around the room 
cautiously. The last time he was here, the whole house had 
been a wreck, strewn with signs of a man falling to pieces. 
Now, the piles of laundry and evidence files were gone; the 
couches and the floor were clean, and Clay himself was 
beaming with a genuine smile. He caught John’s eye, and 
his grin faded. 

“A lot has changed.” He smiled as though reading John’s 
mind. 

“Is Betty—” John broke off too late. He shook his head. 
“Sorry, | didn’t mean to—” 

“No, she’s still gone,” Clay said evenly. “I wish she’d 
come back; maybe she will someday, but life goes on,” he 
added with a brief smile. John nodded, uncertain what to 
Say. 

“John!” Marla waved from the stairs, and immediately 
came bounding down with her usual eagerness, wrapping 
him in a hug before he could so much as Say hello. Jessica 
appeared, coming in from the kitchen. 


“Hey, John,” Jessica said more calmly, but with a glowing 
smile. 

“I’m so glad to see you again, it’s been a long time,” 
Marla said, releasing him at last. 

“Yeah,” he said. “Too long.” He tried to think of 
something else to say, and Marla and Jessica exchanged a 
glance. Jessica opened her mouth, about to speak, but was 
interrupted as Carlton ran excitedly down the staircase. 

“Carlton!” John called with his first genuine smile of the 
evening. Carlton raised his hand in an answering wave, and 
came to join the group. 

“Hey,” he said. 

“Hey,” John echoed as Carlton tousled John’s hair. 

“What, are you my granddad now?” John made a 
halfhearted effort to straighten his hair while searching the 
crowd with his eyes. 

“I’m surprised you came.” Marla slapped him across the 
shoulder. 

“I mean of course you were going to come!” Carlton 
corrected. “I just know you’ve been busy! Too many 
girlfriends, am | right?” 

“How’s New York?” John asked, fishing for something to 
talk about as he straightened his clothes. 

“Great! College, city—learning—friends. | was in a play 
about a horse. It’s great.” He bobbed his head in a rapid 
nod. “Marla’s in school, too.” 

“In Ohio,” Marla jumped in. “I’m premed.” 

“That’s great.” John grinned. 

“Yeah, it’s been a lot of hard work but it’s worth it,” she 
said cheerfully, and John began to relax, falling back into the 
familiar pattern of their friendships. Marla was still Marla; 
Carlton was still inscrutable. 


“Is Lamar around?” Carlton asked, looking from face to 
face. Marla shook her head. 

“I! called him when ... a few months ago,” she said. “He’s 
on track to graduate early.” 

“But he’s not coming?” Carlton persisted. Marla smiled 
Slightly. 

“He said, ‘I’m never, ever, ever setting foot in that town 
again, not ever, never for as long as | live, and you 
shouldn’t, either.’ But he said we’re all welcome to visit 
him.” 

“In New Jersey?” Carlton made a skeptical face, then 
turned his attention to Jessica. “Jessica, what’s up with you 
these days, anyway? | heard you've got the dorm room to 
yourself now.” 

John stiffened, suddenly aware of what Carlton was really 
asking; the lights seemed blinding, the noise louder. Jessica 
glanced at John, but he didn’t acknowledge her. 

“Yeah,” she said, turning back to the others. “I don’t 
know what happened, but | came home one day right after 
... about six months ago, and, she was packing what she 
could carry. She left me and John to clean up the rest. If we 
hadn’t happened to walk in, | don’t think she was even 
going to tell me she was leaving.” 

“Did she say where she was going?” Marla asked, her 
brow furrowing. Jessica shook her head. 

“She hugged me and said she’d miss me, but all she’d 
say was She had to leave. She wouldn’t tell me where.” 

“Well, we can always ask her,” Carlton said. John looked 
at him, startled. 

“You've seen her?” 

Carlton shook his head. “Not yet, my plane just got in 
today, but she’ll be here tonight. Jessica says she looks 


good.” 

“Right,” John said. They all looked at him as if they could 
see what he was thinking: She looks good, but she doesn’t 
look like Charlie. 

“John, come help me in the kitchen!” Clay called, and 
John broke away from the group relieved, but also fully 
aware he couldn’t possibly provide any help in the kitchen. 

“What's up?” he asked. Clay leaned back against the sink 
and looked him up and down. “Need me to open the 
ketchup bottle?” John asked, growing nervous. “High shelf?” 

Clay sighed. “I just want to make sure you’re all right out 
there.” 

“What do you mean?” 

“| thought you might be nervous; | Know it’s been a while 
since you and Charlie talked.” 

“It’s been a while since you and | have talked, too,” John 
said, unable to keep the edge out of his voice. 

“Well, that’s different, and you know it,” Clay said drily. “1 
thought you might need a pep talk.” 

“A pep talk?” John retorted. 

Clay shrugged. “Well, do you?” Clay stared at him firmly, 
but with kindness in his eyes, and John’s nerves calmed. 

“Jessica told you?” he asked, and Clay tilted his head to 
the side. 

“Some. Probably not all. Here.” Clay opened the 
refrigerator door he had been leaning against and handed 
John a soda. “Try to relax, you’re here with friends. Those 
people out there love you.” Clay smiled. 

“| know,” John said, setting the can on the countertop 
next to him. He eyed it for a second but did not pick it up, 
feeling like if he drank it, he would be giving in, accepting 


everything he was told. It would be like taking whatever pill 
everyone else had already swallowed. 

John eyed the back door. 

“Don’t even think about it,” Clay said abruptly. John 
didn’t try to pretend it wasn’t what he was thinking. Clay 
sighed. “I know how hard this must be for you.” 

“Do you?” John responded sharply, but Clay’s expression 
didn’t change. 

“Stay and talk to her. | think you owe that to her, and to 
yourself.” 

John’s eyes were still fixed on the door. 

“All of this heartache that you’re putting yourself 
through; that can’t be what you want.” Clay leaned to the 
side, interrupting John’s gaze. 

“You're right,” John said. He stood up straight and met 
Clay’s eyes. “This isn’t what | want.” He went to the back 
door and pushed it open, rushing down the concrete steps 
as though Clay might pursue him, then walking around the 
side of the house toward his car, his heart pounding. He felt 
a little light-headed, and completely unsure he was making 
the right decision. 

“John!” someone called from behind him. The familiar 
voice sent a jolt through him, and he stopped, closing his 
eyes for a second. 

He heard her heels tapping on the stone walk, the sound 
vanishing as she crossed the grass to him. He opened his 
eyes and turned toward the voice; she was standing a few 
feet from him. 

“Thanks for stopping,” Charlie said. Her face was 
anxious, her arms wrapped tightly across her body like she 
was cold, despite the mild weather. 


“| was just going to get my jacket,” John said, trying to 
sound casual in the midst of an obvious lie. He looked her 
up and down, and she didn’t move, like she knew what he 
was doing, and why. /t’s not her. She looked like some 
stunning cousin of Charlie’s, maybe, but not her. Not the 
round-faced, frizzy-haired, awkward girl he had known 
almost all his life. She was taller, thinner, her hair longer, 
darker. Her face was uncannily different, though he could 
not have explained how. Her posture, even as she stood 
hugging herself in anxiety, was somehow elegant. As he 
looked at her, the first shock of recognition gave way to an 
acute revulsion; he took an involuntary step back. How can 
anyone think that’s her? he thought. How can anyone think 
that’s my Charlie? 

She bit her lip. “John, say something,” she said, pleading 
in her voice. He shrugged, holding both hands up in 
resignation. 

“I! don’t know what to say,” he admitted. 

She nodded. She uncrossed her arms as if she had just 
realized she was holding them that way, and began to pick 
at her nails instead. “I’m so happy to see you,” she said, 
sounding like she was about to cry. John softened, but 
tamped the feeling down. 

“Me too,” he said in a monotone. 

“I missed you,” she began, searching his face for 
something. John had no idea what he might look like, but he 
felt like stone. “I, uh, | had to get away for a while,” she 
went on uncertainly. “That night, John, | thought | was going 
to die.” 

“| thought you did,” he said, trying to swallow the lump 
rising in his throat. 

She hesitated. 


“You don’t think I’m me?” she asked softly at last. 

He looked down at his feet for a moment, unable to say 
the words to her face. 

“Jessica told me. It’s okay, John,” she said. “I just want 
you to know that it’s okay.” Her eyes were bright with tears. 
His heart lurched, and in an instant, the world came into a 
different focus. 

He gazed at the woman huddled in front of him trying to 
Suppress her sobs. The stark differences he saw in her were 
suddenly things that seemed so easily explained. Her shoes 
had heels, so she was taller. She was wearing a form-fitting 
dress, instead of her usual jeans and T-shirt, so she 
appeared thinner. She was wearing elegant clothing, and 
her gestures were confident, sophisticated, but it was all no 
more than if Jessica had given her the makeover she was 
always threatening. No more than if Charlie had just grown 
up. 

We've all had to grow up. 

John thought of the way he drove home from work—or, 
had until this morning—the way he avoided ever driving 
past her house, or the site of Freddy Fazbear’s. Maybe 
Charlie had things she wanted to avoid. Maybe she just 
wanted to be different. 

Maybe she wanted to change, like you did. When you 
think of that moment, what it did to you—what must it have 
done to her? What kind of nightmares do you have, Charlie? 
He was seized by a sudden, visceral desire to ask her, and 
for the first time he allowed himself to meet her eyes. His 
stomach jolted as he did, his heart racing. Tentatively, she 
smiled at him, and he smiled back, unconsciously mirroring 
her, but something frigid twitched inside him. Those aren’t 
her eyes. 


John shifted his gaze, a calm coming over him; Charlie 
looked momentarily confused. “Charlie,” John said carefully. 
“Do you remember the last thing | said to you, before you— 
were trapped in the suit?” She held his gaze for a moment, 
then shook her head. 

“I’m sorry, John,” she said. “I don’t remember a lot about 
that night, whole pieces are just—missing. | remember 
being in the suit—l passed out, | think for hours.” 

“So, you don’t remember?” he repeated gravely. It 
seemed impossible that she could have forgotten. Maybe 
she didn’t hear me. 

“Were you hurt?” he asked brusquely. 

She nodded silently, her eyes filling again with tears, and 
she hugged herself; this time she didn’t look cold, she 
looked like she was in pain. Maybe she was. John took a step 
closer to her, wanting suddenly, desperately, to promise her 
that everything would be all right. But then her eyes met his 
again, and he stopped, stepped back. She extended a hand, 
but he didn’t take it, and again she crossed her arms over 
her body. 

“John, would you meet me tomorrow?” she asked 
steadily. 

“Why?” he said before he could stop himself, but she did 
not react. 

“| just want to talk. Give me a chance.” Her voice rose 
Shakily, and he nodded. 

“Sure. Yeah, I'll meet you tomorrow.” He paused. “That 
same place, okay?” he added carefully, waiting to see how 
she would reply. 

“The Italian place? Our first date?” she said easily and 
gave a gentle smile; her tears seemed to have stopped. 
“Around six?” 


John let out a deep breath. “Yeah.” He met her gaze 
again and did not look away, letting himself take rest in her 
eyes for the first time that night. She looked back at him, 
motionless, like she was afraid she might scare him away. 
John nodded, then turned and left without another word. He 
walked quickly back to his car, struggling to keep his pace 
even. He felt like he had done something wonderful, and 
also like he had made a horrible mistake. He felt strange, 
riding an adrenaline rush, and as he drove through the dark 
he pictured her face again. 

Those weren't her eyes. 

Charlie watched him go, rooted to the spot as if it were the 
only place she’d ever stood. He doesn’t believe me. Jessica 
had not wanted to tell her about John’s strange yet adamant 
conviction, but his refusal to speak to her now, his 
unwillingness even to acknowledge her presence that day in 
the diner was too bizarre to be dismissed. How can he think 
I’m not me? 

The taillights of John’s car vanished around a bend. 
Charlie stared into the dark where he had been, not wanting 
to return to the bright, noisy house. Carlton would tell her a 
joke; Jessica and Marla would comfort her the way they had 
in the diner that day, when she had come to show them that 
somehow, impossibly, she had survived. The walk from her 
car—really Aunt Jen’s borrowed car—toward the diner had 
felt like miles that day, her stomach fluttering anxiously 
even though she knew, of course, that they would be happy 
to see her. How could they not be? Every step was stiff, 
uncertain; every time she moved it hurt, her body sore all 


over from the day before, though there were no marks on 
her to show it. Even breathing was strained and unfamiliar, 
and she had a persistent feeling that if she forgot to do it, 
she would stop, die of asphyxiation right there on the 
pavement, unless she was reminded, take a breath. She 
could see them through the window as she made her way to 
the front of the diner, her heart racing, and then they saw 
her and it was everything she had dared to hope: Marla and 
Jessica ran to the door, jostling over who would hug her first, 
crying at the sight of her living face. She let herself be 
wrapped in the warmth of their relief, but before they even 
let her go, she was looking for John. 

When she saw him, his back to the door, she almost 
called out his name, but something stopped her. He said 
something she could not hear, and she watched, 
incredulous, as he failed to come to her, clenching a spoon 
in his hand like a weapon. “John!” she called at last. But he 
did not turn around. Marla and Jessica ushered her out of 
the restaurant, making reassuring sounds that must have 
been words, and Charlie strained to see him through the 
window: he had not moved. How can he pretend I’m not 
here? 

A shock of pain hit her suddenly, yanking her back to the 
present, and Charlie hugged herself tightly, though it didn’t 
really help: it was everywhere, sharp and hot. She clenched 
her jaw, unwilling to make a sound. Sometimes it eased to 
an ache she could push to the back of her awareness; 
sometimes it vanished for days at a time, but always it 
came back. 

Were you hurt? John had asked, the first—the only—sign 
he’d given that he might still care, and she had been unable 
to reply. Yes, she could have said. Yes, | was and / still am. 


Sometimes | think I'll die of it, and what | feel now is just an 
echo of what it used to be. It feels like all my bones are 
broken; it feels like my guts are twisted and torn; it feels like 
my head has cracked open, and things are leaking out, and 
it happens again and again. She clenched her teeth, taking 
deliberate breaths, until it began slowly to recede. 

“Charlie? Are you okay?” Jessica said quietly, appearing 
beside her on the sidewalk outside Clay’s house. Charlie 
nodded. 

“| didn’t hear you come over,” she said hoarsely. 

“He doesn’t mean to hurt you. He’s just—” 

“Traumatized,” Charlie snapped. “I know.” Jessica sighed, 
and Charlie shook her head. “Sorry, | didn’t mean to be 
rude.” 

“| know,” Jessica said. Charlie sighed, closing her eyes. 
He’s not the one who died—and it did feel like dying. She 
could only remember that crucial night in fragments: her 
thoughts were all scraps and whispers, hazy and muddled, 
everything circling slowly around a central point: the single 
unmistakable snapping sound of the spring locks. Charlie 
Shivered, and felt Jessica’s hand touch her shoulder. She 
opened her eyes, looking helplessly at her friend. 

“Il think he just needs time,” Jessica said gently. 

“How much time can he need?” Charlie asked, and the 
words sounded like stone. 





lt’s ready.” A soft voice rang out in the dark. 

“T’ll tell you when it’s ready,” said the man slumped in 
the corner, studying a monitor intently. “Raise it a few more 
degrees,” he whispered. 

“You've said before that might be too much,” she said 
from the opposite corner, leaning over a table. The light 
shimmered off her contours as she carefully examined what 
lay before her. 

“Do it,” the slumped man said. The woman touched a 
dial, then recoiled suddenly. 

“What is it?” he demanded. He didn’t take his eyes off 
the monitor. “Raise it two more degrees,” he ordered, his 
voice rising. Fora moment, the room was silent. Finally, the 
man turned toward the table. “Is there a problem?” 

“| think it’s ...” The woman trailed off. 


“What?” 

“Moving,” she finished. 

“Of course it is. Of course, they are.” 

“It looks like it’s ... in pain?” she whispered. The man 
smiled. 

“Yes,” 

A bright light flashed on abruptly as a sudden noise 
resounded from the center of the room. Red, green, and 
blue lights flashed in sequence and a cheerful voice erupted 
from the speakers embedded in the walls, filling the room 
with song. 

Every light shone down on him: the sleek white-and- 
purple bear. His joints clicked with every pivot; his eyes 
jolted back and forth randomly. He stood about six feet high; 
his rosy cheeks like two balls of bright cotton candy, and he 
wielded a microphone with a head like a shimmering disco 
ball. 

“Shut that thing off!” the slouched man shouted, getting 
to his feet with obvious difficulty. He moved slowly toward 
the center of the room, leaning heavily on his cane. “Get 
back, I’ll do it myself!” he screamed as the woman retreated 
to the table in the corner. The man pried a white plastic 
plate off the chest of the singing bear, and reached inside 
the cavity, extending his arm all the way into the opening 
and pulling at whatever he could find. As he disconnected 
the wires inside, first the eyes stopped turning, then the 
eyelids stopped clapping shut, then the mouth stopped 
singing and the head stopped turning. Finally, with one last 
jostle, the eyelids clamped shut and the head dropped to 
the side lifelessly. The man stepped back, and the heavy 
plate of the bear’s chest cavity swung shut with a clang, as 
the animatronic bear filled with the sounds of servos and 


wheels, broken and disconnected, unable to move or 
function. Spurts of air burst from between the seams of his 
body casing as the air hoses misfired. 

The sound came to a stop, the echoes from it lingering 
fora moment before dying away. The man turned his 
attention back to the table and lurched to it. He looked 
down, studying the writhing figure that lay there fora 
moment. The table’s surface was glowing orange, and the 
hot metal hissed. He took a syringe from the woman’s hand 
and thrust it into the squirming thing forcefully. He drew the 
plunger up, holding the needle steady as the syringe filled 
with molten substance, then finally pulled away with a jolt. 
He staggered back toward the bear. 

“Now, let us put you to greater purpose,” he said to the 
glowing syringe. The man again pried open the heavy chest 
plate of the standing, broken bear, then carefully inserted 
the syringe he held directly into the chest cavity and began 
to press the plunger down. The cavity snapped shut, too 
heavy for the frail man to hold open, and he fell backward 
clutching his arm. The syringe clattered to the ground, still 
nearly full. The woman rushed to kneel by his side, feeling 
his arm for breaks. “I’m fine,” he grumbled, and glanced up 
at the still motionless bear. “It needs to be heated more.” 
The hissing sound continued as the figure turned on the 
table, pushing off plumes of steam as it rolled on the hot 
surface. 

“We can’t heat it more,” the woman said. “You'll destroy 
them.” 

The man looked up at her with a warm smile, then jerked 
his eyes back to the bear: he was now looking down at 
them, his eyes open wide and tracking their subtlest 
movements. “Their lives will now have a greater purpose,” 


the man said contentedly. “They will become more, just like 
you did.” He looked up at the woman kneeling over him, and 
she looked back, her glossy painted cheeks gleaming in the 
light. 

John let himself into his apartment and locked the deadbolt 
behind him, sliding the chain into place for the first time 
since he moved in. He went to the window and fiddled with 
the blinds, then stopped, pushing back the impulse to close 
them and seal himself away completely from the outside 
world. On the other side of the glass, the parking lot was 
still and silent, cast in the eerie light of a single streetlamp 
and the blue neon sign of a nearby car dealership. There 
was an unfamiliar whirring sound coming from somewhere, 
and John watched the parking lot for a moment, not sure 
what he was expecting to see. The sound was gone soon 
after anyway, and he went into the bathroom to splash 
water on his face. When he came back into his bedroom, he 
froze: it was the sound again, this time louder—it was in the 
room with him. 

John held his breath, straining to listen. It was a quiet 
noise, the sound of something moving, but it was too 
regular, too mechanical to be a mouse. He flipped on the 
light: the noise continued, and he slowly turned, trying to 
hear where it was coming from, and found himself looking at 
Theodore. 

“Is that you?” he asked. He stepped closer and picked up 
the disembodied rabbit’s head. He held it to his ear, 
listening to the strange sound emanating from inside the 
stuffed creature. There was a sudden click, and the sound 


stopped. John waited, but the toy was silent. He put 
Theodore back down on the dresser and waited for a 
moment to see if the sound would begin again. 

“I’m not crazy.” John said to the rabbit. “And | won’t let 
you, or anyone else, convince me that | am.” He went to his 
bed, reaching under the mattress with a suspicious glance 
at the toy rabbit, suddenly feeling watched. He took out the 
notebook he had hidden there, and sat back on the bed, 
looking at its black-and-white cover. It was a plain 
composition notebook, the kind with a little place on the 
front for your name and class subject. John had left that 
blank, and now he traced the empty lines with his finger, 
not really wanting to open the book that had sat, 
untouched, beneath his mattress for nearly three months 
now. 

At last he sighed and opened to the first page. 

“I’m not crazy,” he spoke to the rabbit again. “I know 
what | saw.” 

Charlie. He filled up the first page with nothing but facts 
and statistics, of which he knew embarrassingly few, he 
realized. He’d known Charlie’s father, but not her mother. 
Her brother was still a mystery. He didn’t even know if she’d 
been born in New Harmony, or if there was some other town 
before Fredbear’s, the diner they had discovered that first 
time they all returned to Freddy’s. He had painstakingly 
written out their shared history: childhood in Hurricane, then 
the tragedy at Freddy’s, then her father’s suicide. She had 
moved in with her aunt Jen after that. As he wrote that 
down, John realized that he had never known where Charlie 
and Jen lived. Close enough to Hurricane that she had 
driven rather than flown there for the dedication of 
Michael’s memorial scholarship, nearly two years ago, but it 


seemed odd that she had never even mentioned the name 
of the town where she now—and then—lived. 

He flipped through the pages; they grew less and less 
sparse as he had continued, the details filling in more and 
more as he called them over and over to mind. He had 
scribbled whole scenes of memory: like the time he put gum 
in her hair, thinking it would be funny. Charlie had stared at 
him with an impish look on her face as their first-grade 
teacher cut it out of her hair with little blue-handled safety 
scissors. Charlie had managed to retrieve that clump of 
hairy gum from the trash when no one was looking, and 
took it outside with her during recess. As soon as they were 
out the door, Charlie grinned at John. “I want to give you 
your gum back,” she said, and the afternoon became a 
game of chase, as they careened around the schoolyard, 
Charlie determined to shove the hair-encrusted piece of 
chewing gum back into John’s mouth. She had not 
succeeded: They were caught, and both given time-out. 
John smiled as he read the scribbled version of the story. It 
had seemed important to start with their childhood, to 
ground himself in the Charlie-that-was, and the John-that- 
was, as well. Now he sighed, and flipped ahead. 

In the later pages, he had tried to capture everything 
about her: the way she moved, the way she spoke. It was 
hard; the more time passed the more the memories would 
be John’s memory of Charlie and not Charlie, and so he had 
written down as much as he could, as fast as he could, 
starting three days after that night. There was the way she 
walked, self-assured until she realized someone was looking 
at her; there were the non sequiturs she tended to toss out 
every time she got nervous around people, which was often. 
There was the way she sometimes seemed to sink into 


herself, as if there were another reality going on inside her 
head, and she had stepped momentarily outside this one 
and into somewhere he could never follow. He sighed. How 
do you check for that? He flipped the notebook over: he had 
started a different set of thoughts from the back. 

What happened to Charlie? 

If the woman at Carlton’s party, the woman who had 
appeared so suddenly at the diner, was not Charlie, then 
who was she? The most obvious answer, of course, would be 
her twin. Charlie had always referred to a boy, but Sammy 
could easily be short for Samantha, and the memory Charlie 
had confided in him, of Sammy being taken from the closet, 
was a kidnapping, not a murder. What if Charlie’s twin was 
still alive? What if she had been not only kidnapped by 
Springtrap, William Afton at the time, but raised by him? 
What if she had been shaped and molded by a psychopath 
for seventeen years, primed with all the knowledge 
Springtrap could glean from Charlie’s life, and now she had 
been sent to take Charlie’s place? But why? What would be 
the point of that? Afton’s fixation on Charlie was disturbing, 
but he didn’t seem capable of anything so elaborate—or of 
caring for a human child long enough to brainwash her. 

He had written out a dozen other possible theories, but 
when he read them over now, none really felt right: They 
either fell apart upon scrutiny, or, like the imagined 
Samantha, they made no real sense. And in all cases, he 
could not match them to the Charlie he had met earlier that 
night. Her sorrow and her bemusement had seemed so real; 
picturing her face now raised a dull ache in his chest. John 
closed the book, trying to imagine for a moment the 
situation reversed: Charlie, his Charlie, turning from him, 
insisting that he was not himself—that he, the real John, was 


dead. /’d fall apart. He would feel the way Charlie had 
looked tonight, pleading, hugging herself as if it was all she 
could do to hold herself in one piece. He lay back on the 
bed, holding the book to his chest, where it sat, heavier 
than its weight. He closed his eyes, clutching the book like a 
child’s toy, and as he drifted to sleep he heard the sound 
from Theodore’s head again: the whirring, and then the 
click. 

The next day, John woke up late and filled with a rootless 
dread. He glanced at the clock, realized in a panic that he 
was late for work, and almost simultaneously recalled that 
there was no more work, a reality that would have 
consequences soon enough, but not today. All he had to do 
today was meet Charlie. The dread swelled again at the 
thought of it, and he sighed. 

Late that afternoon, as he dug through his dresser for a 
presentable shirt, someone knocked at the door. John 
glanced at Theodore. 

“Who?” John whispered. The rabbit didn’t answer. John 
went to the door; through the front window he saw Clay 
Burke standing outside staring at the door, apparently 
politely ignoring the fact that he could see right into John’s 
apartment if he wanted to. John sighed and slid the chain off 
the latch, then opened the door wide. 

“Clay, hey. Come in.” Clay hesitated on the threshold, 
glancing at the interior that was too sparse to be a mess. 
John shrugged. “Before you judge, remember that I’ve seen 
your place look worse than this,” he said, and Clay smiled. 

“Yes, you have,” he said at last, and came inside. 


The noise from Theodore’s head started again, but John 
chose to ignore it. 

“What is that?” Clay asked after a few seconds. John 
waited to answer, knowing the sound would stop soon, and 
after a moment it did, with the same click as before. 

“It’s the rabbit head.” John smiled. 

“Right, of course.” Clay looked toward the dresser, then 
back at John as though nothing was out of the ordinary. 
Considering what they’d been through in the past, it really 
wasn’t. “So, what can | do for you?” John asked before 
something stranger could happen. Clay rocked on his heels 
momentarily. 

“! wanted to see how you were doing,” he said lightly. 

“Really? Didn’t we have that talk yesterday?” John said 
drily. He stood again and grabbed a clean shirt from his 
dresser and went into the bathroom to change. 

“Yeah well, you Know, you can never be too sure,” Clay 
Said, raising his voice to be heard. John turned on the 
faucet. “John, what do you know about Charlie’s aunt Jen?” 

John turned the faucet off abruptly, jarred out of his 
petulant mood. “Clay, what did you say?” 

“l said what do you know about Charlie’s aunt?” 

John changed his shirt quickly and came back out into 
the bedroom. “Aunt Jen? | never met her.” Clay gave him a 
Sharp look. 

“You never saw her?” 

“I didn’t say that,” John said. “Why are you asking me 
this now?” Clay hesitated. 

“Charlie became very eager to see you again when | 
mentioned that you had seen Jen that night,” he said, 
seeming to choose his words with care. 


“Why would Charlie care if | saw Jen or not? For that 
matter, why do you?” John reached past Clay to grab a belt 
hanging off the foot of the bed, and began to slip it through 
the loops of his jeans. 

“It just made me realize that there is a lot we don’t know 
about that night,” Clay said. “I think your conversation with 
Charlie tonight can help fill in those gaps, if you ask the 
right questions.” 

“You want me to interrogate her?” John laughed without 
humor. Clay sighed, frustration leaking through his habitual 
calm. 

“That’s not what I’m asking, John. All I’m saying Is, if 
Charlie’s aunt was there that night, then I’d like to ask her a 
question or two.” John stared at Clay, who just looked back 
at him placidly, waiting. John grabbed a pair of socks and 
sat down on the bed. 

“Why are you suddenly coming to me, anyway?” he 
asked. “No one’s believed anything I’ve said so far.” 

“It’s what we found at the compound,” Clay answered, 
more easily than John had expected. He straightened. 

“The compound—you mean Charlie’s dad’s house?” Clay 
gave him a level look. 

“I think we both know it was more than just a house,” he 
said. John shrugged and said nothing, waiting for him to go 
on. “Some of the things we found in the wreckage were ... 
they didn’t mean much to anyone else, but what | saw— 
some of the things | saw down there were pretty scary, even 
though most of it was buried under concrete and metal.” 

““Scary’? Was that the conclusion of your entire team, or 
just you?” John said, not bothering to keep the sarcasm out 
of his voice. Clay didn’t seem to hear him, his eyes fixed on 


a point between them. “Clay?” John said, alarmed. “What 
did you find? What do you mean, ‘scary’?” 

Clay blinked. “I wouldn’t be sure how else to describe it,” 
he said. John shook his head. “I will say this,” Clay said 
harshly. “I’m not ready to close the book on the 
Dave/William Afton/whatever else he was calling himself—” 

“Springtrap,” John said quietly. 

“I’m not ready to close the book on that case,” Clay 
finished. 

“What does that mean? You think he’s still alive?” 

“T just think we can’t make any assumptions,” Clay said. 
John shrugged again. He was out of patience—out of 
interest, almost. He was sick of intrigue: Clay withholding 
information, trying to protect them—as if keeping secrets 
had kept any of them safe, ever. 

“What do you want me to ask her?” John said plainly. 
“Just get her to talk to you. It’s been wonderful having 
her here again, don’t misunderstand, but it seems like she’s 

holding something back. It’s like she’s—” 

“Not herself?” John said with an edge of mocking. 

“That’s not what | was going to say. But | think she might 
know something she hasn’t told us yet—maybe something 
that she hasn’t felt comfortable sharing.” 

“And she might feel comfortable sharing it with me?” 

“Maybe.” 

“That feels morally ambiguous,” John said wearily. From 
the dresser, the whirring noise started again. “See? 
Theodore agrees with me,” he said, gesturing toward the 
rabbit. 

“Does it always do that?” Clay reached for the rabbit’s 
head, but before he could touch it, Theodore’s jaw snapped 
open and the head jerked in place. John startled, and Clay 


took a quick step back; they both watched, transfixed, as 
the sound went on, though the head did not move again. 
The sound it was making became a distorted murmur, 
louder and softer, at times almost mimicking words, though 
John could not even begin to make them out. After a few 
minutes, the head fell silent again. 

“I’ve never seen it do that before,” John said. Clay was 
bent over the dresser, his nose almost touching Theodore’s, 
as if he could see inside. 

“| need to go soon,” John said shortly. “I don’t want to be 
late, right? For this new open and honest relationship that 
I’m starting with her.” He made brief, accusing eye contact 
with Clay and went briskly to the door. “Don’t you need to 
lock it?” Clay asked as John brushed past him. 

“It doesn’t matter.” 


It was still light out when John got to St. George, and when 
he looked at the dashboard clock, John saw that he was over 
an hour early. He parked in the restaurant lot anyway and 
got out, glad for the opportunity to walk around and burn 
some nervous energy. He had avoided St. George, the town 
where Charlie and Jessica had been in college—/essica 
probably still is in college, he thought with a pang of guilt. / 
should know basic stuff like this. 

He walked past a few storefronts, heading 
semiconsciously for the movie theater he had been to with 
Charlie the last time he was here. Maybe we can go seé a 
movie. After the dinner-and-interrogation. John stopped 
short on the sidewalk: The theater was gone. Instead, two 
gigantic clown faces grinned at him from the windows of a 


gleaming new restaurant. The faces were almost as large as 
the wide front door, painted on either side, and above them 
was a Sign, in red and yellow neon letters: CIRCUS BABY’S PIZZA. 
The neon lights were on, glowing uselessly in the daylight. 
John stood motionless, feeling like his sneakers had fused to 
the parking lot. A group of kids rushed past him on their way 
in, and a teenager bumped into John, breaking him out of 
his daze. 

“Just keep walking, John,” he muttered to himself, turning 
to move away, but he stopped again after only a few steps. 
“Just keep walking,” he repeated in a sterner tone, and 
turned to face the restaurant defiantly. He approached the 
front door and pushed it. It opened into an empty vestibule, 
a waiting area, where smaller versions of the clowns out 
front smiled crazily from the walls, and a second door read 
WELCOME! in painted cursive letters. There was a familiar 
Smell in the air: some particular combination of rubber, 
sweat, and cooking pizza. 

John opened the second door, and noise exploded. He 
blinked in the florescent lights, bewildered: Children were 
everywhere, screaming and laughing, and running across 
the floor, and the jingles and blips of arcade games sounded 
discordantly from around the room. There were play 
structures, something like a jungle gym to his left, and a 
large ball pit to his right, where two small girls were 
throwing brightly colored balls at a third girl, who was 
shouting something he could not make out. 

There were tables set up in the center of the room, where 
he noticed five or six adults talking to one another. 
Occasionally they’d look over their shoulders at the chaos 
surrounding them, at the stage in back of the room, its red 


curtain closed. A chill went down his spine, and he looked 
around again with a terrible déja vu at the playing children 
and complacent parents. 

He started toward the stage, twice stopping just in time 
to avoid tripping over a game of tag. The curtains were 
brand-new, the red velvet plush and gleaming in the light, 
and trimmed with golden ropes and tassels. John slowed his 
pace as he got closer, the pit of his stomach tensing with an 
old, familiar dread. The stage floor was about level with his 
waist, and he stopped beside it and glanced around, then 
carefully grasped the thick curtain and began to pull it back. 

“Excuse me, sir,” a man’s voice came from behind him, 
and John straightened like he’d touched a hot stove. 

“Sorry,” he said, turning to see a man wearing a yellow 
polo shirt and a tense expression. 

“Are you here with your children, sir?” he asked, raising 
his eyebrows. The shirt read cIRCUS BABY’S PIZZA, and he was 
wearing a name tag that read STEVE. 

“No, |...” John paused. “Yes. Several children. Birthday 
party, you know. Cousins, So many cousins, what can you 
do?” 

Steve was still looking at him with raised eyebrows. 

“| have to go meet someone ... somewhere else,” John 
said. Steve gestured to the door. 





No!” Jessica cried in dismay as she wrangled her keys from 
the pocket of her fashionably too-tight jeans. An apple 
tumbled out of the paper grocery bag she was struggling to 
balance on her hip and rolled away down the hallway. It 
came to rest on the welcome mat of her worst neighbor, a 
middle-aged man who seemed capable of detecting the 
tiniest noise, then promptly complaining about it. In fact, 
since she moved in to the apartment six months ago, 
leaving behind the dorm room she and Charlie had shared, 
he had come to her door three times to complain about her 
radio. Twice it had not even been on. Mostly, he just glared 
at her whenever they passed in the hall. Jessica didn’t really 
mind the hostility; it was a little like being back home in 
New York. She left the apple where it was. 


Having managed to get the door open, Jessica dropped 
the bags on the kitchen counter and looked around the 
room with a quiet satisfaction. The apartment wasn’t very 
fancy, but it was hers. When she first moved in, she had 
gone on a cleaning rampage, scouring out the baked-in dirt 
that must have been lining the baseboards since the 
building went up some fifty years ago. It had taken almost 
two weeks of nothing but scrubbing between classes and 
homework, and she went to bed every night with sore arms, 
as though she’d done nothing but weight training. But now 
the apartment was clean enough for Jessica—albeit just 
barely—which was no small bar to clear. 

She began taking things out of the grocery bags, lining 
everything up on the counter before putting each item 
away. “Peanut butter, bread, milk, bananas ...” she muttered 
to herself, then fell silent. 

Something is wrong. She looked around the room 
carefully, but there was no one there and everything 
seemed to be where she’d last left it. She returned to the 
grocery bags. 

As she closed the refrigerator door the hair at the back of 
her neck prickled. Jessica whirled around as though 
expecting to catch a burglar in the act, her heart jolting with 
adrenaline, but the room was still. Just to be sure, she went 
to check the door: it was locked, as expected. She stood in 
silence for a moment, listening to the distant sounds of her 
apartment complex—the hum of an air-conditioning unit 
outside, a leaf blower across the street—but nothing 
seemed out of the ordinary. She stepped carefully back to 
the counter and finished putting away the groceries, then 
headed to her bedroom. She turned the corner to the 


hallway and screamed: a figure stood in the dark, blocking 
the way. 

“Jessica?” said a familiar voice, and Jessica reached 
hastily for the light switch, tensed to run. The light flickered 
on slowly: it was Charlie. 

“Did | scare you?” Charlie said uncertainly. “Sorry. The 
door was unlocked—| should have waited outside,” she 
added, looking down at her shoes. “I just figured since we 
used to be roomies anyway ...” 

“Charlie, you scared me to death,” Jessica said ina 
mock-scolding tone. “What are you doing here?” 

“Il told you I’m having dinner with John?” Charlie said, 
and Jessica nodded. “Could | borrow something to wear? 
Maybe you could help me pick something out?” Charlie 
looked hesitant, like she was asking an immense favor, and 
Jessica gave her a puzzled frown. 

“Yeah, sure, of course.” Jessica tried to calm herself. “But, 
Charlie—it’s not like you need my help choosing an outfit 
these days.” Jessica gestured at Charlie’s clothing: she was 
wearing her habitual combat boots—or a more elegant 
version of them—but she had paired them with a medium- 
length black skirt and a dark red, scoop-necked blouse. 
Charlie shrugged and shifted her feet. 

“T just think—he might like me better if you help me pick 
an outfit, instead of me dressing myself, you know? John 
doesn’t seem to like my new look.” 

“Well, Charlie ...” Jessica stopped, choosing her words 
carefully. “It won’t do either of you any good to pretend 
nothing has changed,” she said firmly. “Wear what you have 
on, you look great.” 

“You think so?” Charlie said, looking doubtful. 


“Yeah,” Jessica said. She brushed past Charlie to go into 
her room, stepping cautiously past her, and Charlie 
followed, pausing in the doorway like a vampire waiting for 
an invitation. Jessica looked at Charlie and was suddenly set 
at ease, as if their friendship had never been interrupted. 
Jessica grinned. “So, | mean, are you nervous?” she asked, 
going to her dresser for her hairbrush, and Charlie came in 
and sat down on the bed. 

“| feel like | have to prove something to him, but I’m not 
sure what,” she said, tracing the flower design on Jessica’s 
bedspread. “You were right, by the way.” 

Jessica turned around, brushing her hair absently. “He 
wants to see you tonight. | think that’s a great start,” she 
offered. “Just let him spend some time with you. He’s been 
through a lot. Remember, from his perspective, he saw you 
die, right in front of his eyes.” 

Charlie laughed, a soft, forced sound, then was silent. 
“I’m just worried about him. And | can’t even help him, 
because”—she broke off—“Jessica, do you remember him 
telling me something important that night?” Something in 
her tone changed: it was subtle, just a hint of strain. Jessica 
kept her expression neutral, pretending not to notice. 

“Something important?” Jessica asked. 

“Something ... that | would remember. Should 
remember.” She kept her eyes on the bedspread, still 
tracing the pattern like she was trying to memorize it. 
Jessica hesitated. She could still see it all, as vivid as the 
present, though it gave her a sick feeling in the pit of her 
stomach. Charlie was trapped in the twisted, broken Freddy 
suit, with just her arm free; John was holding her hand— 
Jessica shuddered, that terrible, singular crunching sound 
echoing in her head. 


“Jessica?” Charlie asked, and Jessica nodded briskly. 

“Sorry.” She cleared her throat. “I don’t know, you and 
John were alone together for a few minutes. I’m not sure 
what he said. Why?” 

“| think it’s important to him that | remember,” Charlie 
said, back to tracing the bedspread. Jessica watched her for 
a moment, suddenly ill at ease in her own bedroom. As if 
sensing it, Charlie stood and met her eyes. 

“Thanks, Jessica,” she said. “Sorry again for breaking in. | 
mean, | didn’t break in, the door was unlocked—but you 
know what | mean.” 

“No problem, just ... announce yourself sooner next 
time?” Jessica smiled, feeling a rush of warmth for her 
friend. She hugged Charlie good-bye at the door. Charlie 
walked a few steps and picked the apple up off the ground, 
then handed it back to Jessica. 

“I think this belongs to you.” Charlie smiled, then turned 
to walk away. When she had closed the door, Jessica sighed. 
The anxiety that had risen while Charlie was in her room 
had not abated. She leaned back against the door, replaying 
what had just happened. Why would John want Charlie to 
remember the last thing he said to her? She tossed the 
apple a few inches into the air, then let it fall back into her 
hand. 

“He’s testing her,” Jessica said to the empty apartment. 

Outside Jessica’s building, Charlie stopped in the parking lot, 
frustrated. What did he say that was so important? She 
walked across the baked pavement to her car. Charlie 
climbed into her car, slamming the door shut with more 


force than she needed to. She stared petulantly at the 
steering wheel. They’re lying to me, she thought. / feel like a 
little kid, with all the grown-ups keeping secrets from me. 
Deciding for me what I should and shouldn’t know. 

She glanced at her watch—the clock in the car was either 
an hour ahead or an hour behind, and she could never 
remember which. She had about twenty minutes before she 
had to meet John. “I can’t show up early,” she said plainly, 
“then he really won't believe it’s me.” Trying to shrug off her 
bad mood, Charlie put the car in gear and pulled out of the 
lot. 

When she got to the restaurant, she could see John 
through the window, seated at the same table they had sat 
at last time, all the way in the back. He was staring into 
Space, as if he were deep in thought, or completely zoned 
out. She followed the hostess to his table, and it was only 
when she was standing right beside him that he seemed to 
realize she was there. When he did, he stood hastily. Charlie 
started to move toward him, but he sat back down, and she 
quickly sidestepped and did the same. 

“Hi,” she said with an awkward smile. 

“Hi, Charlie,” he said quietly, then grinned suddenly. 
“You're dressed a lot nicer than last time we were here.” 

“It probably just seems that way because I’m not covered 
in dirt and blood this time,” Charlie said lightly. 

“Right.” He laughed, but there was a quick instant of 
appraisal in his eyes. That was a test. The thought sent 
something cold through the pit of her stomach. She had 
known it would happen, but knowing did not make it easier 
to have his eyes, usually so warm, look at her with 
calculation. 


“What was that movie we saw?” John asked, seeming to 
fumble at an answer. “Last time | visited, we went to that 
theater down the street, didn’t we? It’s on the tip of my 
tongue.” 

“Zombies vs. Zombies!” Charlie said. 

“Right, | knew it was about zombies,” John said 
thoughtfully. 

“So, what have you been doing since then?” Charlie 
asked, attempting to shift the topic. “Are you still doing 
construction work?” 

“Yeah,” John said, then cast his eyes down at the table. 
“Actually, maybe not. | just got fired.” 

“Oh,” Charlie said. “I’m sorry.” 

He nodded. “Yeah. | mean, it was my fault. | showed up 
late, and—there was some other stuff—but | really liked that 
job. Well ... it was a job at least.” 

“There have to be other building sites,” Charlie said. 
“Yeah, | guess.” He looked at her searchingly, and she 
looked back, trying not to shrink under scrutiny. Believe me, 
she pleaded silently. What will it take for you to believe me? 

“I’ve missed this,” she said instead. 

He nodded, his eyes softening for a moment. “Me too,” 
he said quietly, though she knew it was only half true. 

“You know | didn’t leave because of—it wasn’t because of 
you,” Charlie said. “I’m sorry if it seemed like it was; | just 
had to get away from everything and everyone. I—” 

“Are you folks ready to order?” the waitress asked 
brightly. John straightened his posture and cleared his 
throat. Charlie looked down at the menu, glad of the 
interruption, but the pictures of food looked strange, as if 
she had heard food described, but never seen any. “Miss?” 
The waitress was looking at her expectantly. 


“I'll have the same,” Charlie said quickly, and shut the 
menu. The young woman frowned confusedly. 

“Oh, uh, okay. | guess | should order then.” John laughed. 

“Anything will be fine.” Charlie sat patiently. “I’m sorry. I'll 
be right back.” She got up from the table hastily and headed 
for the bathroom, leaving John to take care of things. 

Walking into the bathroom, she was struck with a jarring 
sense of déja vu. /’ve been here before. Trapped in a box, | 
was trapped in a box—Charlie slammed the door shut and 
locked it. /’m not trapped. She ran her fingers through her 
hair, though it didn’t really need adjusting, and washed her 
hands; she was just killing time, stealing a moment away 
from John’s scrutiny. Every time he gave her that level, 
untrusting look, she felt exposed. 

“lam Charlie,” she said to her reflection, smoothing 
down her hair again nervously. “I don’t have to convince 
John that I’m me.” The words sounded thin in the small 
room. Who else would | be? Charlie washed her hands 
again, straightened her shoulders, and went back out into 
the dining room. She sat down and put her paper napkin in 
her lap, then looked John squarely in the eye. 

“| still don’t remember,” she said abruptly, seized by an 
obstinate recklessness. 

John raised his eyebrows. “What?” 

“| don’t remember what you said to me that night. | know 
it’s important to you—I know maybe it’s why you think what 
you think about me, but | just ... don’t remember. | can’t 
change that.” 

“Okay.” He slid his hands off the edge of the table and let 
them rest in his lap. “I know—I know that. Um, a lot 
happened that night. | know.” He sighed for a moment but 
then smiled almost reassuringly. Charlie bit her lip. 


“If it’s that important, why can’t you just tell me?” she 
asked gently. Instantly, she could see that it was the wrong 
thing to say. John’s features hardened; he drew back from 
the table slightly. She looked down at the napkin in her lap; 
she had been shredding the corner of it without noticing. 
“Never mind,” she said, her voice barely above a whisper, 
letting several long minutes pass. “Forget | said anything.” 
She looked up, but John didn’t respond. 

“Excuse me for just a minute. I'll be right back.” He got 
up and left the table. 

She stared at his empty chair. The waitress approached 
and cleared her throat; Charlie heard her, but did not move. 
She wasn’t sure she could move. This is going horribly. 
Maybe I'll just sit here forever. I'll be a statue of myself, a 
monument to Charlie-that-was. Charlie-that-will-never-be- 
again. 

“Miss?” The waitress sounded concerned, and it was 
enough for Charlie to, with herculean effort, turn her head. 
“Is everything all right, miss?” the waitress asked, and it 
took Charlie another long moment to comprehend the 
question. 

“Yes,” she said at last. “Could | have another napkin?” 
She held up the first, half-shredded, as evidence of her 
need, and the waitress went away. Charlie turned back to 
John’s empty chair. 

John slid back into view and sat down, breaking the line 
of her vacant stare. 

“Everything okay?” he asked. She nodded. 

“The waitress is getting me another napkin.” Charlie 
gestured vaguely in the direction the waitress had gone. 

“Right.” He opened his mouth to go on, but before he 
could speak, the waitress returned, carrying Charlie’s 


napkin, along with their food. They were both silent as she 
placed it in front of them, and John smiled at her. “Thanks,” 
he said. Charlie stared at her plate: it was some kind of 
pasta. She took her fork carefully but didn’t start to eat. 

“Can | ask you something?” John finally said, and she 
nodded eagerly, setting the fork back down. He took a deep 
breath. 

“That night, how did you survive? I—There was so much 
blood ...” He stopped, at a loss for words. Charlie looked at 
him, at the familiar face that had somehow turned against 
her. She had been trying to piece together a story for him, 
but now she just spoke. 

“| don’t know,” she said. “I—There’s time missing, when | 
try to think about it my mind—flinches away, like it’s hit 
something sharp.” The distance in John’s eyes faded a little 
as she spoke. “I’d been in a suit before,” she went on. “| 
think | must have figured out how to get away somehow, or 
at least how to position myself.” She looked anxiously at 
him, and his gaze sharpened. 

“T still don’t understand. How did you manage to get 
away ... undamaged?” He looked her up and down again, 
seeming to examine her. 

Charlie’s breath caught in her throat, and she turned 
away from him, staring fixedly out the window at the 
parking lot. 

“I didn’t,” she said tightly. 


* *K X* 
John didn’t answer, searching Charlie’s half-turned face for a 


spark of something he could recognize—or not recognize. 
She was saying all the right things, in all the right ways, and 


her hints—more than hints—at the unshakable trauma she 
had gone through that night made his stomach clench. As 
she gazed off into the middle distance, her jaw was 
clenched; she looked like she was fighting something off, 
and John was seized with a sudden urge to go to her, to hold 
out his hand and offer his help. Instead he picked up his fork 
and began to eat, looking down at his plate instead of at 
her. She knows what I’m doing, he thought, chewing grimly. 
She’s giving me the right answers. Some detective I’ve 
turned out to be. John took another bite and stole a glance 
at her; she was still looking off at the parking lot. He 
swallowed and cleared his throat. 

Before he could speak, Charlie turned back to him. “After 
that night, | had to get away,” she said. Her voice was 
hoarse, and her face was strained, her features seeming 
harsher than before. “I had to leave everything behind, 
John. Everything. My whole life has been haunted by what 
happened here, and the last couple of years ... even before 
that, too. It’s just been my whole life.” She met his eyes 
briefly, then looked away, blinking rapidly like she was 
holding back tears. “I wanted be somebody different; | had 
to or I’d go insane. | know it’s a cliché to think you can 
change your life if you change your hair and your clothes” — 
she gave an ironic half smile and flipped her long hair over 
her shoulder—“but | couldn’t be your Charlie forever, that 
naive little girl, scared of her own shadow; /iving in a 
shadow. Honestly, | don’t even know what you saw in that 
girl—selfish, scatterbrained, pathetic.” She said the last 
word so caustically that she almost shook with it, a sour look 
coming over her face as if loathing for her past self had 
overwhelmed her. 


“| never thought you were any of those things,” John said 
quietly, and looked down. He ran his fork along the rim of 
his plate, not Knowing what to say. He made himself look up; 
Charlie’s face had softened, and now she seemed anxious. 

“But it’s still me.” She shrugged, her voice breaking. He 
couldn’t answer; he didn’t know where to start. Charlie bit 
her lip. “You still think it, don’t you?” she said after a 
moment. John shifted uncomfortably in his seat, ashamed, 
but Charlie pressed on. 

“John, please, | don’t understand. If you think I’m not me, 
then ... what do you think? Who can you possibly think | 
am?” She looked utterly bewildered, and again John felt 
himself wavering. 

“| think—” He gestured graspingly at the air, catching 
nothing. “Charlie, what | saw—!” he exclaimed, then 
stopped short, remembering they were in public. He glanced 
around, but no one was looking at them: the restaurant was 
not busy, but everyone there was occupied, the guests 
talking to the people they came with, the staff talking 
among themselves. “I saw you die,” he said, lowering his 
voice. “When you walked into that diner the next day, 
Charlie, | wanted to believe it was true—! sti// want to 
believe it, but I—I saw you die,” he finished helplessly. 
Charlie shook her head slowly. 

“I’m telling you that I’m alive, how can that not be 
enough? If you want to believe me, why don’t you?” The 
pain in her voice sent a pang of guilt through him, but he 
met her eyes calmly. 

“Because I'd rather know the truth than believe 
something just because it would make me happy.” 

Charlie looked at him searchingly. “So, what do you think 
is the truth? Who do you—” she swallowed, and started 


again. “Who do you think | am, if I’m not me?” 

John sighed. “I’ve thought about it a lot,” he said at last. 
“Almost constantly, actually.” Charlie nodded slightly, barely 
moving her head, like she was afraid she would spook him. 
“| thought about a lot of things, | guess—theories—um ...” 

“Like what?” Charlie asked gently. 


“Well...” John’s face was getting hot. / should never have 
agreed to see her. 
“John?” 


“I—I guess maybe | thought you might be Sammy,” he 
mumbled; she looked puzzled for a moment, like she had 
not quite heard him, then her eyes widened. 

“Sammy’s dead,” she said tightly. John looked up at the 
ceiling and put his hands to his temples. 

“| know,” he said, and met her eyes again. “But, Charlie, 
look: | don’t know that. Neither do you. The last thing ... you 
remember, of Sammy, what was it?” 

“You know the answer to that,” she said in a low, level 
voice. 

“You saw him being taken,” John said after a moment. 
She made no response, and he took it as license to 
continue. “You saw him being kidnapped, not killed. By 
Dave, or Afton—Springtrap. So, what if he wasn’t killed? 
What if Sammy was raised by William Afton, twisted, and 
brought up by a murderous madman to replace you—to 
replace Charlie—after her death? Also, Sammy could be 
short for Samantha. | forgot that part. Sammy could have 
been a girl all along.” Charlie was motionless across the 
table; she scarcely looked like she was breathing. “I Know 
how it sounds when | say it out loud,” John added in a rush. 
“That’s why | mostly don’t.” Charlie had covered her face 
with her hand, and her shoulders were shaking. He broke off 


as she looked up: this time she was laughing. There was a 
manic edge to it, like it might turn back into crying at any 
moment, but John tentatively tried to smile. 

“Oh, John,” she said at last. “I don’t even—You know 
that’s crazy, right?” 

“Is it crazier than anything else we’ve seen?” he argued 
without much conviction. 

“John, you took me to see the grave yourself, 
remember?” 

John paused and looked confused for a moment, trying to 
reconcile what he’d just heard. 

“You took me yourself, to Sammy’s grave.” 

“Il took you to the cemetery, but | never saw Sammy’s 
grave, or your father’s,” John corrected. 

“Then go look sometime.” Charlie’s voice was patient. 
John felt immediately foolish. 

“Aunt Jen warned me not to come back to Hurricane.” 
Charlie looked down at the table. “She’s three for three at 
this point. Have you heard from her, by the way?” 

“From your aunt?” John asked, disconcerted by the 
sudden change of subject. “I figured you were living with 
her after you moved out of Jessica’s place.” 

“Yeah,” Charlie said. 

“You were living with her?” 

“Have you seen her?” 

“Why would | have seen her?” John asked slowly, 
suddenly feeling a bit lost in the conversation. He had seen 
Jen twice: once as a child, and once on that terrible night, 
crouched beside the twisted, broken Freddy suit in a pool of 
Charlie’s blood. But Charlie didn’t know about either. “You 
know I’ve never actually met her,” John said, watching 


Charlie’s face. Her expression was pensive, and did not 
change. 

“| just thought she might try to get in touch,” Charlie said 
idly. 

“Okay. I'll let you know if she does?” John offered. 
“Please do, thanks,” Charlie said. It was only then that 
she seemed to register his confusion. “I haven’t seen her in 
a while. She rescued me that night,” she said. “She took me 

home and cleaned me up, made Sure | was okay.” She 
flashed John a quick half smile, and he returned it warily. 

“| thought you said you didn’t remember anything from 
that night,” he said, trying to keep his tone from sounding 
accusatory. 

“| said there was a lot | don’t remember. But mostly 
that’s what Jen told me. Honestly, the first thing | remember 
is her waking me up the next morning, telling me to put on 
the dress she had for me.” Charlie made a face. “She always 
wanted me to dress more like a girl. Of course, the joke was 
on me; it turns out after a few near-death experiences, 
there’s nothing | wanted more than a makeover.” 

John smiled, and she batted her eyelashes 
exaggeratedly. He laughed in spite of himself. 

“So, you think she might be looking for you?” He paused, 
unsure how to phrase the next part. “Do you want her to 
find you?” he asked at last, and she shrugged. 

“I'd like to know where she is.” 

“She’s not at the house where you’re living? When did 
she leave?” 

“Everybody leaves eventually,” Charlie said in a sardonic 
tone, and he laughed again, less heartily. 

You didn’t answer my question. 


Charlie glanced at her watch: like everything else she 
now wore, it was a smaller, feminized version of the one she 
used to have. “There’s a good zombie movie starting in 
about fifteen minutes, | think,” she said brightly. “The new 
theater isn’t far from here. What do you think, should we 
see if the old formula still works?” 

What does that mean? John held back a smile. “I can’t go 
to the movies,” he said with real reluctance. “I’ve got 
somewhere that | need to be.” 

“Another time?” Charlie said, and he nodded. 

“Yeah, maybe.” 

As he walked back to his car, John noticed a crowd 
outside the new pizzeria. / guess everybody likes the circus, 
he thought. He wandered closer, trying to see where Charlie 
had gone, but she was nowhere to be seen. Suddenly, like 
noticing hidden figures in a picture, John realized that the 
crowd around him was dotted with clowns: painted faces, 
white billowy costumes, noses of all shapes and colors. They 
were everywhere. He backed out of the throng, tripping on 
an oversize shoe and almost falling off the sidewalk. 

When he was free of the crowd, John took a deep breath 
and looked back at the restaurant, noticing for the first time 
the banner strung over the front entrance. GRAND OPENING: 
COME DRESSED AS A CLOWN AND EAT FREE! it read, hanging between 
the gigantic faces of two grinning clowns. He looked around. 
More people were arriving, many of them in costume, and 
John felt the hair on the back of his neck stand on end. He 
glanced behind him, but there was nothing sinister, besides 
the clowns. He forced himself to look at them individually: 
people had dressed with varying degrees of enthusiasm— 
some had structured bodysuits, wigs, and enormous feet; 


others had simply painted their faces and worn polka-dot T- 
Shirts. Still, his sense of unease did not abate. 

They’re just people in costumes, he scolded himself, then 
laughed abruptly, startling a woman standing nearby. 
“People in costumes. That’s never gone wrong for me,” he 
muttered, walking away from the crowd to find his car. 

Driving home, John found himself agitated; twice he looked 
at the speedometer and saw that he’d gone dangerously 
over the speed limit without noticing. He tapped his hand 
restlessly against the steering wheel, thinking of the next 
day. What then? Seeing Charlie had rattled him more than 
he had realized. After months of solitary scribbling, going 
over and over his bizarre theories, he’d been forced to put 
his conviction to the test, to ask her questions and watch 
her answer, and ask himself as he did, Are you her? Are you 
my Charlie? Now that it was over, it felt unreal, like a dream 
that lingered too long, unwelcome in the waking world. As 
he approached the turnoff that would take him home, he 
sped up, driving straight on past it. 

John parked his car a few blocks away from Clay Burke’s 
house. He pulled the keys out of the ignition and jangled 
them nervously in his hand for a minute, then opened the 
door decisively and got out. When he got to the house it 
was dark except for a single window, which he thought was 
Clay’s office. / wonder if Carlton’s gone back to school, he 
wondered, unsure whether he was hoping for his friend’s 
presence, or his absence. 

He knocked and waited, then rang the bell. A long 
moment later, Clay opened the door. 


“John. Good,” he said, and nodded, seeming unsurprised 
by his presence. He stepped aside to let John in, and 
ushered him into the study. “Do you want some coffee?” he 
asked, gesturing at the mug on his desk. 

“It’s a little late for me,” John said. “I'll be up all night.” 

Clay nodded. “I’m substituting lesser vices,” was all he 
said. John glanced around the room. The last time he had 
been here they’d used the desk as a barricade against an 
army of angry animatronics. 

“You fixed the door,” he observed. 

“| fixed the door,” Clay said. “Oak. Reinforced. What 
brings you here?” 

“| saw Charlie.” Clay raised his eyebrows, but didn’t say 
anything. “She said something: she asked if I’d heard from 
—" John stopped, seized by a sudden sense that he was 
being watched. Clay had his head tilted to the side as 
though sensing something as well. 

Silently, Clay made his way to the closed window, 
positioning himself beside one of the long, pale green 
drapes, and peered outside. “Everyone is a little on edge 
with all these weirdos walking around in face paint,” he said, 
but he kept his voice low. He pulled the drapes together, 
then walked back toward John. “Have a seat,” Clay offered; 
there were two dark green upholstered chairs and a 
matching couch along one wall. John sat on the couch. Clay 
grabbed his desk chair and dragged it across the rug so 
they were only a few feet apart. 

“What did Charlie ask you?” Clay began. John glanced at 
the window again; he felt as if waves of dread were 
emanating from it, rolling into the room like an unseen fog. 
Clay looked back over his shoulder, but only for a second. 
John cleared his throat. 


“She asked about her aunt Jen. If I'd seen her. | thought 
you might know something?” he finished uncertainly. Clay 
looked lost in thought, and John wondered for a moment if 
he should repeat himself. 

“No,” Clay said finally. “Did Charlie say why she was 
asking?” 

John shook his head. “She just said she wanted to know if 
I'd heard from her. | don’t know why | would hear from her, 
though,” he said. He was choosing his words carefully, as if 
saying the right ones in the right order would unlock a door 
in Clay’s mind, and convince him to tell John what he knew. 
Clay just nodded thoughtfully. “Did you ever meet her?” 
John asked. 

“Never a formal introduction, no,” Clay said. “She was a 
bit older than Henry, | think.” Clay got quiet for a moment 
and tilted his glass from side to side, swirling the last few 
sips at the bottom. “When he moved here, Henry was 
something of a recluse; we all knew he’d lost a kid.” Clay sat 
up slowly. “Didn’t see them for a while, even Charlie, and 
then ...” Clay let out a pained sigh. “Jen was around for 
about a year, and she was the one watching the kid. Jen 
stuck to Charlie’s side like glue. | guess Henry just didn’t 
trust people anymore, and | can’t blame him.” 

“| always kind of got the impression ...” John paused, 
choosing his words again. “Charlie always gave me the 
impression that she was kind of cold.” 

“Well, like | said, after something like that,” Clay said. “1 
was surprised when Jen took Charlie, after Henry died,” he 
went on. 

“What about Charlie’s mother?” John asked hesitantly. It 
felt intrusive to pry, worse because Charlie was not here: he 
felt like they were talking about her behind her back. 


“No, Charlie’s mother ran off before her and her father 
moved to Hurricane,” Clay said. “Henry never said anything 
bad about her mother. He pretty much never said anything 
about her at all, but | asked one day, just out of curiosity. 
Maybe it was the detective in me; | couldn’t help myself. He 
thought a long time before answering me, then he gave me 
this sad look, and he said, ‘She wouldn’t know what to do 
with my little girl.’ | backed off the subject after that. | 
mean, | knew they’d lost another kid. | guess | assumed 
Charlie’s mother had had some kind of breakdown, or else 
just found herself unable to care for a child so much like the 
one she’d lost. | think it should be said, though, to her aunt 
Jen’s credit, Charlie seems to have turned out all right.” He 
smiled and gave a nod. “She’s a bit odd, but she’s a good 
kid.” 

“She’s unique, for sure,” John said. 

“Unique, then,” Clay said drily. The walls trembled briefly 
as a strong wind passed over the house. John cast his eyes 
around the room uncomfortably, then lit on something 
familiar in the corner, tucked away between the end of a 
bookshelf and the wall. 

“Is that Ella?” John asked, pointing. Clay looked blank for 
a moment. 

“The doll? That turned up in the rubble of Charlie’s old 
house. The rest got hauled away, but | kept that.” 

“Her name is Ella,” John said. “Charlie’s dad made her, 
she used to go around on a track, carrying a tea set.” 

“l asked Charlie if she wanted it,” Clay said. “She wasn’t 
interested.” 

“She wasn’t?” John repeated, alarmed. Clay shook his 
head absently. 


“| have a hard time believing that,” John said 
incredulously as he held the old toy in his arms, and Clay 
came back to attention. 

“Well, tell her that it’s here if she ever wants it.” 

“| will,” John said, setting the doll back down. Clay 
glanced at the window again and looked preoccupied. “Is 
something wrong?” John asked. 

“Not at all,” he said. 

John raised his eyebrows. “Are you sure about that?” 

Clay sighed. “A child was abducted this morning.” 

“What?” 

“A little girl, she disappeared sometime between mid- 
night and six a.m.” Clay was stone-faced; John searched for 
words and came up empty. “It’s the second one this month, 
Clay added quietly. 

“| haven't heard anything about that,” John said. He 
glanced at the window again as the wind began to howl 
outside, then looked back at Clay, and immediately the knot 
of fear took up its post behind his head again. “Do you have 
any leads?” John asked the first question he could think of. 
Clay didn’t answer for a long moment, and John asked the 
next question. “Do you think it has something to do with—I 
mean, missing kids, it’s not the first time that’s happened 
here.” 

“No, it’s certainly not.” Clay was staring into the space 
between them as if there was something there he could see. 
“| don’t see any way that it could be connected, though; 
Freddy’s has been destroyed at this point.” 

“Right,” John said. “So, you don’t have any leads?” 

“I’m doing the best that | can.” Clay lowered his head 
and ran his hand though his hair, then sat up straight again. 
“I’m sorry. It’s got me on edge; | feel like I’m reliving those 


” 


days: children, the same age as my little boy—the same age 
as you back when—getting snatched one after another, and 
there was nothing | could do to stop it then, either.” 

“Michael,” John said quietly. 

“Michael. And the others. There never seems to be a 
Shortage of evil in this world.” 

“But that’s why we have you, right?” John smiled. 

Clay snorted. “Right. | wish it were that simple.” 

“You said two kids were missing?” John said, his eyes 
drawn again toward the sound of the wind dragging 
branches and leaves against the side of the house. 

Clay stood up and went to the window, almost defiantly, 
and opened it wide. John startled at the sound of the 
window cracking. John could see from where he sat that 
Clay seemed to be scanning the area for something under 
the guise of getting some air. 

After a moment, he pulled himself back inside and shut 
the window, then drew the curtains closed. “It might not be 
as bad as it looks now, John. There’s usually a normal 
explanation, and most kids turn up, one way or another. Two 
weeks ago, there was a little boy named Edgar, whatever. 
Two and a half years old.” 

“What happened?” 

“His parents have been fighting about custody for over a 
year. His father ends up losing that fight—only gets to see 
the kid once a month, supervised visits, which | can tell you 
was for good reasons. Edgar disappears, surprise, Surprise. 
He was found a few days later, alive and well; soontaneous 
road trip with his dad. Most kidnappings, it’s one of the 
parents.” 

“Is that what you think is happening here?” John asked 
Sskeptically. 


“No.” Clay didn’t take long to answer. “No, | don’t,” he 
repeated, sounding graver. 

He took a deep breath and leaned forward. “And it 
doesn’t help that the whole town’s obsessed with this new 
restaurant, dressing up like clowns—it’s a waste of time for 
my officers to be doing crowd control, or clown control, as it 
were.” 

“Can | do anything?” John asked, though he couldn’t 
imagine what kind of help he could be. 

“Not a thing,” Clay said. “If I’m right, | may need you. 
And I'll need—” He stopped. 

“Charlie,” John said. “You'll need Charlie.” 

Clay nodded. “It’s not fair to ask that of her,” Clay said. 
“Not after everything she’s been through. But | will if | have 
tO." 

“Yeah,” John said. Clay was staring at the space between 
them again, and John felt suddenly like he was intruding. 
“It’s getting late,” he said. 

“Yeah, well, watch yourself out there,” Clay said, hastily 
standing. “Do you want to take my gun?” Clay said lightly. 
He smiled, but there was tension in his face, as though he 
were half hoping John would take it. 

“Don’t need it.” John grinned. “I’ve got these guns.” He 
held a tight fist in the air and threatened the room before 
letting himself out. 

“Okay, tough guy, see you soon,” Clay said grimly. 


* OK OX 
John started back toward his car: it was pitch-black now—it 


had been dark when he arrived, he realized, but now he 
noticed it. The streetlamps didn’t go far, the pools of light 


beneath him swallowed up only a few feet out. His footsteps 
landed hard; and there seemed to be no way to quiet them. 
The distant roar of the highway was too faint to provide 
cover, and the wind was silent for the time being, as though 
it had temporarily gone into hiding. Something moved a few 
yards ahead of him, and John stopped dead: coming down 
the road was another costumed moviegoer, but there was 
something off about this one. It was heading in his direction, 
walking in the middle of the road at an even pace. John 
stayed where he was between two of the tall, thin saplings 
planted along the sidewalk, his eyes glued to the 
approaching figure. 

As it came closer, a chill gripped John’s spine: The 
clown’s movements were feminine, but wrong. She walked 
like something mechanical, yet graceful. His breath caught 
in his throat as the clown glided toward him like a wraith. 
The creature was Staring straight ahead as it passed; John 
waited, hoping to stay out of its line of sight. As she grew 
closer however, her eyes drifted toward him, her head 
turning only slightly as though to acknowledge his passing. 

John stared back, at first admiring the sleek and 
controlled beauty of her face, split down the middle through 
some trick of costuming. John instinctively took a step back 
—he had seen monsters before—and prepared to run, or 
fight, if necessary. But just as his heart began thudding 
against his chest, she looked away again and slipped back 
into the dark as gracefully as she had appeared. John 
watched for a moment, then continued to his car. He 
checked his rearview mirror, but there was no one in sight. 
As he drove home, he checked the mirror more often than 
he needed to. His thoughts kept returning to those shiny, 
penetrating eyes: the clown had looked at him like she knew 


him; like she could see right through him. “Relax,” John said 
to the empty car. “It was just some weirdo in a costume.” 
Saying the words aloud, however, did not make them any 
more convincing. 

Clay went back to his office and stopped by the window, 
drawing aside the curtains slightly to make sure John had 
made it around the corner and out of sight. Clay sighed; he 
sat down at his desk, picked up the case file on the second 
missing child, and began to review it. The information he 
needed just wasn’t there, but it didn’t stop him from 
returning to it over and over again. His officers had 
diligently done their jobs: they’d gone to the right places, 
talked to the right people, and asked all the wrong 
questions. They just don’t know what | know. 

There was a sound from down the hallway, a distinct 
creak. Clay’s eyes lifted, and he set the file carefully back on 
his desk. 

“John?” he called, but there was no response. With 
practiced calm, Clay quietly reached for the gun he kept ina 
holster under his desk and flipped the safety off. He went to 
the open office door and paused, listening for another noise 
from the dark hall. Nothing came. Clay pulled the door shut, 
Snapping the deadbolts into place. 

Clay stepped back into the center of the room and stood, 
listening. A moment passed in silence and his eyes dropped, 
his shoulders feeling at ease, but suddenly his eyes lifted 
again, and his jaw clenched. He took one deliberate step 
back, focusing directly on the center of the door ahead of 
him. He lifted and steadied his gun, and took aim. Several 


minutes passed, but Clay’s eyes never wavered. There was 
something in the hall. 

John let his front door fall shut behind him with a heavy thud 
and tossed his keys on the kitchen counter. He sat down 
heavily on the couch, letting his head fall back, weighted 
down with fatigue. After only a moment, he lifted his head 
back up: the strange noise was coming from his bedroom 
again. It sounded a little like the sounds the rabbit’s head 
had been making, but something had changed, though he 
couldn’t pinpoint how. It sounded like a voice, then static, a 
voice, then static. Something was being repeated. 

John’s bedroom door was almost all the way closed, and 
he got up from the couch and approached it slowly from the 
side, putting his feet down silently one after the other, the 
rubber soles scarcely tapping the floor. He eased the door 
open: the sound was louder now, more distinct: the voice 
continued, garbled and muffled. John turned on the light and 
went to Theodore’s head. He bent over so his eyes were 
level with Theodore’s plastic ones, and listened. The rabbit’s 
head stared back, muttered words, broke into static, then a 
moment later repeated. John grabbed a notebook and pen 
off his bed and closed his eyes, concentrated on the sounds. 

After a minute, he began to hear words. “Shining?” John 
whispered. “Shining—something. Silver?” He continued to 
listen, but he couldn’t make out the rest. John gritted his 
teeth and opened his eyes, glaring at the stuffed rabbit's 
head as it continued to repeat the same incoherent phrase. 
John drew in a long breath, then let it out, trying to release 
the tension in his neck, in his jaw, in his back. He sat down 


on the bed, put the pen and paper down, and closed his 
eyes once more. Just listen. The sounds repeated, again and 
again. Suddenly, they resolved, like song lyrics after the 
thousandth play: John understood. 

“Shining Star? Silver ... something. Silver Reef? Shining 
Star, Silver Reef.” 

“Shining Star, Silver Reef,” Theodore repeated. John got 
up again, putting his ear to Theodore’s nose, trying to make 
sure he had it right. “Shining Star, Silver Reef ...” the rabbit 
intoned. John raced back to his car. 

When he reached Clay’s driveway again, John stopped 
dead: the front door was gaping open, light from inside the 
house spilling into the yard. He ran up the steps, calling, 
“Clay! Clay, are you here?” He ran inside, still shouting, and 
made for Clay’s office just a few steps past the front hall. 

“Clay!” 

John dropped to his knees beside Clay; he was on the 
floor, one side of his face slick with his own blood, more 
pooling beneath his head. His eyes were closed. John 
grabbed his wrist and pressed his fingers against the veins, 
hoping for a pulse: after a few frantic seconds, he found it, 
and relief washed through him, but it was momentary. 
“Clay?” John repeated, jostling him lightly. Clay didn’t 
respond. John looked around with alarm; the new door, the 
one Clay had described as “reinforced,” was in pieces. What 
was left of the door was still hanging in place by the upper 
hinge. Hastily, John pulled Clay out into the hall as best he 
could. 

He glanced back toward the office: the chair was 
overturned, and everything that had been on the desk 
littered the carpet. He patted Clay’s shoulder. “You’re going 
to be okay,” he said hoarsely, and he went to the office 


phone and dialed 911. As he waited for an operator, he 
looked nervously back at the demolished door. Another 
surge of wind rushed through the front door and out the 
open window, seemingly to carry with it whatever horror 
had happened here. 





The hissing sound continued; there was no place to get 
away from it. Their pain came at random, for no reason they 
could discern, and they clung together in their confusion. 

“Hold still,” a voice said, and they trembled with fear, for 
they knew the terrifying voice well. Frozen like a frightened 
animal, trying to hide but completely exposed; inner, bloody 
screams silent to the world. The shadow blotted out the 
light from above. “Keep wiggling, and | will keep taking the 
parts of you that wiggle,” the voice growled. The hissing 
grew louder, and with a sudden snap, and a flash of 
shocking pain, the shadow withdrew, holding something in 
his hands. “I'll be back soon.” 


* OK 


“| was gone for less than an hour,” John said in a low voice, 
leaning in so Jessica could hear him over the sound of the 
hospital waiting room’s TV. “I came back, and he was lying 
there. If | had just stayed with him a little longer ...” He 
trailed off, and Jessica gave him a sympathetic look. He 
grabbed his backpack off the floor and put it in his lap, 
touching the front pocket to reassure himself that 
Theodore’s head was still where he’d stuffed it. 

“Do you think it was just someone with a grudge?” she 
asked, then flushed. “I don’t mean ‘just,’ like it’s not a big 
deal, but | mean, I’m sure Clay made his fair share of 
enemies, being the police chief. It probably didn’t have 
anything to do with ...” She glanced around and lowered her 
voice. “Anything to do with us.” 

John looked down at the backpack in his lap. “The door ... 
was shredded, Jess.” 

Jessica looked nervously down the hallway, like she was 
worried Clay might hear them. “Well, regardless, it’s not 
your fault.” 

A heavy silence settled in between them, only 
punctuated by the half-crazed voices coming from the TV, 
which was showing a montage of ghastly faced clowns. For 
a moment, John was distracted, searching for a glimpse of 
the apparition who had silently passed him in the street, but 
she was not among the crowd. 

“People are going crazy this weekend,” Jessica said, 
recalling his attention. “Dressing up in those costumes—did 
you hear about the kid who got kidnapped?” 

“Yeah,” John said. “Clay told me about it. Actually, when | 
went to see him—” John broke off as a nurse in blue scrubs 
walked up purposefully. 


“John, Jessica?” she said as if she already knew the 
answer. 

“Yeah, that’s us,” Jessica said, with a hint of anxiety. 

The nurse gave her a smile. “Chief Burke wants to see 
you. | tried to tell him visits are supposed to be immediate 
family only right now, but, well. Chief's orders.” 

The room was only a few doors down the hallway, but the 
bright lights and slick, grayish surfaces were disorienting. 
John squinted to ward off the offensive glare. Jessica was in 
front of him, and he bumped into her before he realized she 
had stopped just short of Clay’s door. 

“What's the matter?” he asked, confused as to why she 
was Standing still. 

She turned around and moved close to whisper: “Can you 
go in first?” 

“Yeah, of course,” he said, understanding. “He’s not that 
bad, Jess, | promise.” 

“Still.” She made a concerned face and stepped back so 
John could approach the doorway. 

The door was open: He could see Clay, apparently 
asleep. He was in a hospital gown, and with the blood 
cleaned from his face, his skin looked sallow. A line of black 
stitches ran from his forehead to his cheekbone, splitting his 
eyebrow. 

“He almost lost that eye.” 

Jessica jumped. The nurse had apparently followed them. 

“He looks pretty out of it,” John said quietly. “Are you sure 
he wanted to talk to us?” 

“He’s drifting in and out,” the nurse replied in a normal 
tone of voice. “Go ahead, it won’t hurt him to talk for a bit.” 

“Hey, Clay,” John said awkwardly as he approached the 
bed. “Carlton and Marla are on their way. They should be 


here soon.” Jessica looked sideways at the elderly woman 
asleep in the other bed, and the nurse stepped past her, 
closing the curtain between the two patients. 

“Privacy, if you can call it that,” the nurse said drily, and 
then left, closing the door partway behind her. 

As soon as she was out of the room, Clay’s eyes opened. 
“Good,” he said. His voice was reedy, and he didn’t lift his 
head from the pillow, but his eyes were sharp. “Don’t pull 
any plugs just yet, I’m still here,” Clay said lightly, and John 
gave him a wry smile. 

“Okay, not yet,” he agreed. 

“How are you feeling?” Jessica asked. 

“Get my jacket,” Clay said, pointing to the enclosure’s 
only chair, where a dark gray sport coat was draped over 
the back. Jessica hurried to get it, and Clay fumbled around 
with it for a minute, finally extracting a long white envelope 
from the inside breast pocket. He held it out to John, sitting 
up slightly; John took it and Clay fell back on the pillow, 
breathing heavily. 

“Take it easy,” John said, alarmed. 

Clay nodded weakly, his eyes closed. “It has to have a 
range,” he mumbled. 

“What?” Jessica leaned in beside John, and they 
exchanged a worried look. 

“It has to have a maximum range.” Clay’s head lolled to 
the side and his breath slowed: he seemed to be drifting out 
of consciousness again. 

“Should we get the nurse?” Jessica looked to John, who 
peered at the monitor, then shook his head. 

“His vitals look okay.” 

“You're not a doctor, John!” 


“Shut the door a little more?” John said, ignoring her. 
Jessica did as he asked begrudgingly, leaving it a few inches 
ajar. John turned the envelope over: It was unaddressed, 
sealed, and heavy. He opened it, and something small fell 
out: Jessica moved to grab it, and John took out the rest of 
the contents: It was a stack of photographs, about an inch 
thick. The top one was of him and Charlie in the restaurant 
only the night before. It seemed to have been shot from 
outside the building, through the front window. John 
continued to browse the photos: Each one tracked through 
his evening with Charlie until they had parted ways: eating, 
coming out of the restaurant, and saying good-bye, the 
pictures all taken from a distance. In some the image was 
askew, or the figures blurry—the photographer had not been 
interested in composition. There was a last shot in the 
sequence: Charlie walking away toward the crowd by the 
new pizzeria; John could make out the back of his own head 
in the bottom corner of the photo. He quickly put it behind 
the others and kept looking. The next sequence showed 
Jessica and Charlie in a clothing store, coming in and out of 
a dressing room in various outfits, talking and laughing. The 
pictures seemed to have been taken from the other side of 
the store—the edges of some were obscured by fabric, as if 
someone had been hiding behind a rack of clothes. 

John felt a stab of angry revulsion. The restaurant 
pictures were bad enough, but this seemed far more 
intrusive, an invasion of an intimate moment. He glanced at 
Jessica; she had moved to the window, holding something 
up to the light, and after a moment John realized that it was 
a Strip of film. He squinted over her shoulder, and she 
lowered it, turning to face him. 

“All the pictures on this are of us,” she said quietly. 


He held up the stack of pictures. “These, too.” 

Jessica held out a hand silently: He passed her half the 
stack and they each sorted through their share. The photos 
covered several more moments in time: there was a set of 
Jessica and Carlton meeting Charlie at a café; John showed 
one to Jessica and she nodded. “That’s when Charlie first 
got back,” she said. Her brow furrowed, and she held up a 
shot of her, Charlie, and Marla coming out of a building. 
“This is my apartment complex,” she said, her voice tense. 
“John, this looks like somebody hired a P.I. to follow all of us 
around. How did he get these? And why?” 

“Il don’t know,” John said slowly, looking back down at 
the photo in his hands, the last in the stack. The picture had 
been taken at night, outside, but the figures were clear: He 
himself was facing the camera, his hands shoved into his 
pockets. The despair on his face visible even at a distance. 
Charlie had her back to the camera; she was hugging 
herself so tightly that he could see her fingers gripping the 
back of her dress, a contorted, useless comfort. Charlie. His 
head was too tight, his chest ached. John reflexively bent 
the photo and put it in his pocket, then turned his head to 
make sure no one had noticed. Jessica said nothing. 

John cleared his throat. “The reason | went to see Clay 
was that | wanted to show him something.” 

“What is it?” Jessica stepped closer. John went to the 
door and peered out, then snuck a glance behind the curtain 
at the elderly woman. She was still asleep. He took off his 
backpack and got Theodore out. Jessica yelped, then 
Slapped a hand over her mouth. “Where did you get him?” 
she demanded. John took a step back, startled by her 
sudden, searing scrutiny. 

“What's wrong with you?” he asked. 


“It’s weird. | always hated that thing.” Jessica fluttered 
her hand by her face. “Charlie’s robotics experiments 
always creeped me out, but it’s kind of nice to see it.” 

“Well, this one has an interesting secret.” 

“Don’t let Charlie see it; she’s been throwing away things 
like that, anything from her dad. It’s probably some kind of 
five-step grief-acceptance thing, but still.” 

“No, I’m not going to show her this. This is going to 
sound crazy, but Theodore’s been ... talking to me, and 
yesterday—” He didn’t have to continue. A garbled, static- 
filled noise retched from the rabbit’s head, and Jessica 
winced. Before she could say anything, the sound changed. 

Now that he knew the words, they were perfectly clear; 
Jessica tilted her head to the side, listening intently. “Is he 
saying, ‘Silver Reef’?” she asked. 

“Shining Star. Shining Star, Silver Reef.” Theodore was 
still repeating the phrase, but John shoved him back into his 
backpack and covered him with a mostly clean T-shirt, 
muffling the sound. Remembering the pictures, he bundled 
them back into the envelope and added them to the bag 
before zipping it back up. “You got it quicker than | did,” he 
told Jessica. She nodded absently, a faraway look in her eye. 

“Silver Reef,” she repeated. 

“Does it mean anything to you?” he asked with a spark of 
hope. 

“It’s a town near Hurricane,” she said. 

“Maybe Charlie’s family used to live there?” John said. 
Jessica shook her head. 

“No. It’s a ghost town. Nobody lives there.” 

“Jessica! John!” Marla’s voice pierced the quiet, and they 
turned to see Carlton beside her, his face pale and tense. He 
brushed past the others and went straight to the bed. 


“Dad, are you okay?” He hovered beside Clay, reaching 
out to touch his hand, then pulling away. “Is he okay?” he 
glanced back at the others, and Marla hurried forward, 
examining the monitors. 

“He’s okay, Carlton,” Marla said, putting a hand on his 
shoulder, and he nodded sharply, not taking his eyes off 
Clay’s still face. 

“He'll be fine,” John said, trying to sound confident. “He 
was just awake, talking. The nurse said he’s going to be 
Okay.” 

“What happened?” Carlton asked quietly, and John shook 
his head. 

“| don’t know,” he said helplessly. “I got there too late.” 
Carlton didn’t answer, but pulled a chair up beside the bed 
and sat down. He rested his chin on his fist, hunching over. 

“It'll be okay,” Marla repeated, then glanced around the 
room with a puzzled expression. “Where did she go?” 

“Who's with you?” Jessica asked alarmingly, looking to 
John. John was looking at the door: Charlie had stopped just 
outside the room. 

“Charlie. Hey, come in,” he spoke loudly, wondering with 
guilt if she had heard any of the conversation that had taken 
place. She stepped into the room, but hung back. John 
glanced at his backpack, on the floor at the foot of Clay’s 
bed. The noise seemed to have stopped, to his relief. When 
he looked up, Charlie gave him an embarrassed half smile. 

“| don’t like hospitals very much,” she said softly. “Is he 
okay?” She didn’t turn her head, and John realized that she 
was deliberately staying where she couldn’t see Clay. 

“He’s going to be,” he said. “He’s doing okay.” She 
nodded, but stayed where she was, looking unconvinced. 


“He’s lucky you were there!” Marla exclaimed. “John, you 
must have saved his life.” 

“Um, maybe,” he said. “I don’t know.” He squeezed her 
hand, then let go of it. He turned back to Charlie; she gave 
him a small, tight smile, her arms folded. The nurse came 
in, and Marla intercepted her, pulling her aside for an 
update on his condition and Jessica took the opportunity to 
lean in. “John, I’m going to leave. I’ve got classes this 
afternoon. Pick me up at seven, don’t be late.” 

“Right,” John whispered. Jessica made her way past 
everyone and through the door. Charlie watched her until 
she was out of sight, then she looked at John again, making 
eye contact for only a moment before turning her attention 
back to the nurse. John glanced around the room: with 
Jessica gone, he felt suddenly untethered, less at ease 
among these people than he already had been. Without 
another word, he slipped out the door, ignoring the soft 
sound of Marla calling his name. 

He was only a few feet down the hall when Jessica caught 
his arm. “John!” 

“Hey!” he protested, then saw there was someone next 
to her, a slight, blonde woman who looked like she had been 
crying, her red eyes the only color in her washed-out face. 
“What’s wrong?” he asked warily. 

“This is Anna,” Jessica said. “Clay ... Chief Burke was—is 
—helping her to ...” She cleared her throat. “Her son is 
missing. Chief Burke was helping.” 

“Oh,” John said awkwardly. “I’m so sorry, ma’am.” Anna 
blew her nose into a crumpled tissue. 

“| was just at the station and | overheard ... they said 
Chief Burke was here, and | just needed to know he’s okay. 
Is he okay?” she asked anxiously. 


“He’s going to be fine,” Jessica said, and Anna nodded, 
not seeming convinced. 

“When | went to report that Jacob ... was missing, the 
desk sergeant had me fill out paperwork, he asked me 
about my ex-husband and said he had probably taken Jacob. 
| told him, that man would never take Jacob, he wouldn’t 
know what to do with him!” 

“Okay,” John said, shifting uncomfortably. “We don’t work 
for the police department—” 

“Il know that,” she said quickly, shaking her head. “I’m 
sorry, | can’t think straight, it’s just | overheard the nurse in 
the waiting room talking to you before. Chief Burke was 
there when the sergeant was telling me to call my ex- 
husband; he took me aside and asked me questions, he said 
he was going to find my son, and | believed him.” 

“He’s a good officer,” Jessica said softly. “He’s a good 
person. He’ll find your son.” Anna pressed her hand to her 
mouth, stifling a sob as she began to cry again. 

“Is he really going to be all right? | heard ...” She broke 
off, and John put a hand on her shoulder. 

“He’s going to be all right,” he said firmly. “We just saw 
him; he talked to us.” Anna nodded, but didn’t look 
convinced. Jessica gave John a helpless glance. He racked 
his brain for something to say. “He will find—Jacob, was it?” 
he asked, and Anna nodded tearfully. 

“Anna!” An older woman rounded the corner briskly, and 
Anna turned at the sound of her name. 

“Mom,” she said, the strain in her voice easing slightly. 
Her mother wrapped her arms around her, and Anna held on 
tightly, crying into her shoulder. 

“It'll be all right,” Anna’s mother whispered. Thank you, 
she mouthed silently to John and Jessica, and they nodded, 


exchanged a glance, and headed for the hospital entrance. 

As soon as they were in the parking lot, Jessica let out a 
gasp like she had been holding her breath, and hugged John 
fiercely. He put his arms around her, surprised. “It'll be all 
right,” he said, and she pushed him away. 

“Will it?” she asked, her eyes bright with tears. “It’s nice 
to tell that poor woman that Clay will find her son, but, John, 
you and | both know that when kids go missing in this town 
... they don’t get found.” John shook his head. He wanted to 
argue with her, but there was something leaden in the pit of 
his stomach. 

“It doesn’t have to end like that this time,” he said 
without conviction, and Jessica straightened, wiping her 
eyes like it was a gesture of defiance. 

“It can’t. It can’t end like that again, John. If that little boy 
is mixed up in all this, we have to find him and bring him 
home. For Michael.” 

John nodded, and before she could answer, she strode to 
her car and drove away, leaving him alone in the parking 
lot. 

That night, John had barely stopped in front of Jessica’s 
building when she came running out. She opened the car 
door and jumped in with lightning speed. “Go,” she said 
urgently, and he hit the gas. 

“What's wrong, what happened?” he asked. 

“Just drive, hurry.” 

“Okay, put on your seat belt!” he scolded as they veered 
around a corner. 


“Sorry! Everything is fine,” she said. “I just don’t like 
thinking someone could be out there stalking me.” 

“Yeah,” he agreed, peering into the rearview mirror. “But 
it’s dark out; we should be okay.” 

“That doesn’t make me feel better.” 

“So, what do you think?” John said after a moment. “Did 
you notice anything about the photos?” 

“That they’re enough to get a restraining order in most 
states?” she joked, but there was real anxiety in her voice. 

“None of them were of just one of us,” he said. “And 
none of them were just you and me, or just you and Marla.” 

“You mean it’s about Charlie,” Jessica said, 
understanding immediately. 

“Isn't everything?” John said drily. The words sounded 
bitter, though he had not meant them to, and he glanced at 
Jessica, trying to gauge her reaction. She was staring out 
the window like she hadn’t heard him. 

In less than half an hour, they were at the ghost town. 
John stopped the car beside a wooden sign reading WELCOME 
TO SILVER REEF, and got out; Jessica followed. It was an odd 
mix, even in the dark: in the distance they could see the 
crumbling walls of buildings that would never be restored, 
and close by were the places rebuilt for tourists: a church, a 
museum, and a few others John couldn’t make out. 

“John, we’re going to get killed out here,” Jessica said, 
briefly losing her balance on the loose dirt and gravel. 

“When exactly did people last live here?” John asked 
quietly. 

“Late eighteen-hundreds | think. Silver mining town, 
hence the name.” 


The town appeared even more abandoned than they 
were expecting, possibly closed to tourists for the season, 
but on distant hills there were scattered lights. John turned 
in a circle, wishing Theodore had been just a little more 
forthcoming. “What does ‘Shining Star’ mean, anyway?” he 
muttered to himself. He looked up: the night was clear, and 
the sky was awash in stars, with no city lights to drown 
them out. 

“It’s beautiful,” Jessica murmured. 

“Yeah, but not helpful,” John said, rubbing the back of his 
neck. He turned around again, and then he Saw it. “Shining 
Star,” he said. 

“What?” Jessica turned, then squinted and tried to follow 
his eye line. 

A few yards back the way they’d come was a wooden 
archway leading into a field; at the peak of the arch, was a 
single silver star. 

The field was wide, sloping upward, and at the top of the 
hill, John could see the outline of a house. It was scarcely 
visible: had it not been for the guidance of Theodore’s 
mumbling head, it wouldn’t have stood out from anything 
else in the canopy of silhouettes. With wordless agreement, 
they passed under the star, leaving the remains of the town 
behind them. The black field soon consumed their line of 
sight in all directions, with only the faint discoloration of a 
winding gravel path to guide their steps. 

As they made their way up the hill, a small, squarish one- 
story house came into view; there were windows on each 
outfacing wall, but only one was lit, in the back. They slowed 
their pace as they reached the front door: there was only 
one concrete step, unusually high and wide. John reached 
out a hand to help Jessica up. She didn’t really need it, 


being five times the athlete that he was, but it still seemed 
polite. The front door was unwelcoming, the little, lightless 
lamps almost hidden, offering no help. John looked around 
for a doorbell and couldn't find one, so he knocked. There 
was no sound of movement from inside. Jessica leaned to 
the side, trying to see through the windows. John had raised 
his hand to try again when the door creaked open, and a 
tall, dark-haired woman peered out, staring at them coldly. 

“Aunt Jen?” John asked meekly, stepping back 
instinctively before he could stop himself. He recognized 
her, but standing face-to-face, he felt almost as though they 
had come to this house at random. Jen tilted her head, her 
dark eyes fixing on him. 

“I’m someone’s aunt Jen, yes,” she said drily. “But | don’t 
believe I’m yours.” She stayed where she was, one hand on 
the doorframe and the other on the knob; she was blocking 
the entry as if she thought they might try to force their way 
in. 

“I’m a friend of Charlie’s,” John said, and a ghost of an 
expression flickered on her face. 

“And?” she said. 

“I’m John. This is Jessica,” he added, realizing she had 
not yet spoken. Jessica would usually have jumped in as the 
social director, but she was leaving this to him, looking back 
nervously as though she suspected someone was creeping 
through the dark. John glanced back at her, and she gave 
him a little, encouraging nod to go on. “I’m here because | 
got a message,” he said. She waited patiently, and John 
took off his backpack and took Theodore out; Jessica 
reached forward to take the empty bag, and he held the 
rabbit’s head up. Jen showed no surprise, only curling her lip 
Slightly. 


“Hello, Theodore,” she said calmly. “You’ve seen better 
days, haven’t you?” 

John smiled reflexively, then hardened his features. 

“Shining Star, Silver Reef,” John said, but Jen didn’t react. 
“| have to say, this is a strange place to call home,” he said, 
though what he wanted to say was, You owe us an 
explanation. 

“A message.” She looked at Theodore’s head, then 
looked accusingly over her shoulder, though all that was 
visible behind her was a dark hallway. 

“Did you want us to come here? | don’t understand,” John 
pressed. 

“Why don’t you come inside,” Jen said, stepping back, 
then closing the door with haste as soon as they were 
inside. The house was spare: the furniture was dark and 
plain, and there was little of it. The walls were thick with 
layered wallpapers, rich with vintage designs from decades 
past, but there was nothing hanging on them, though John 
Saw nail holes and marks where decorations had once been. 
Jen ushered them through a living room with only two chairs 
and an end table, into a small room almost entirely filled by 
a square, black-stained dinner table. There were four 
matching chairs, and Jen pulled out the one closest to the 
door, then sat down. 

“Please,” she said, gesturing to the other chairs. John and 
Jessica made their way around the table to face her, as she 
stared into the middle distance. 

“So, is this where Charlie grew up?” Jessica asked 
awkwardly as she sat down. 

“No.” 

“So, then you moved here recently?” John asked 
suspiciously, refusing to believe someone would select this 


house by choice. 

“How is Charlie?” Jen said slowly. “Did she know about 
the message as well?” Jen made a discreet glance at the 
window behind them, then focused back on John. 

“No,” John said plainly. Jen nodded; she was still staring 
into space, and he had a sudden but profound impression 
that there was something in the room that only she could 
see. 

“We want to help Charlie. Is there anything going on that 
we need to know about?” Jessica asked, and Jen snapped to 
attention. 

“Charlie is my concern. She’s my responsibility.” Jen 
spoke with an air of pure self-assurance, and something in it 
must have struck Jessica: she straightened, lifting her chin 
to match Jen’s posture. 

“Charlie’s our friend, she’s our concern, too,” Jessica 
said. 

There was silence, and John flicked his eyes back and 
forth between the two women, waiting. A long moment 
passed, the two of them staring at each other, immobile, 
and John realized he was holding his breath. 

“Jen,” he said, plunging in. “A friend gave us pictures 
someone had been taking of Charlie, and of us.” He 
unzipped his backpack, and that noise snapped Jessica and 
Jen out of their staring contest. He pulled the pictures Clay 
had given them out of their envelope, leaving the film, and 
placed them in front of Jen on the table. “If you want to take 
responsibility for Charlie, look at these and tell me if they 
mean anything to you.” 

She began going through the stack, peering intently at 
each photo, then putting each aside, making a second, neat 


pile of discards. “Why don’t you ask your detective friend 
what they mean?” she asked. 

“Because last night our detective friend was nearly 
murdered,” John said. Jen didn’t respond, and continued her 
methodical progress through the pictures. When she had 
gone through all the pictures, she looked up at John. Her 
expression had softened slightly; the hostility had given way 
to something else, a discomfort, and fear. 

“Is this all?” she asked. “Is there anything else?” She 
cleared her throat. 

“He said something before he lost consciousness.” 

“And what was that?” 

John looked to Jessica briefly, then back to Jen. “‘It has to 
have a range. It has to have a maximum range.’” He looked 
at her expectantly, but she showed no sign of recognition. 

“I! don’t know what that means,” she said. She put her 
chin in her hand, staring down again at the first picture in 
the stack, then she shook her head. “I know you mean 
well.” She leaned back in the wooden chair, looking from 
John to Jessica and back again. “I should tell you to go away, 
to forget her. All these years ...” She trailed off, then gave 
each of them a piercing look. “Secrets petrify you. You 
harden yourself against the world to keep them safe, and 
the longer you keep them, the harder you become. Then 
one day you look in the mirror, and you realize you’ve 
turned to stone.” She smiled sadly. “I’m sorry.” 

“You're not going to tell us anything? We’re here to help. 
We're Charlie’s friends!” Jessica insisted. 

“If | didn’t plan on telling you anything | wouldn’t have 
anything to be sorry about,” Jen said, her mouth almost 
forming a smile. John collected the photos to put back in his 
bag. 


“If you have something to tell us—do it now, or we’re 
leaving. | may not know much, but I Know that girl isn’t 
Charlie, or she is under some kind of influence.” He waited 
for a response, but none came. “She isn’t herself,” he 
added, sounding more desperate than before. Jen looked up 
at them: her rigid face had broken, tears were in her eyes. 

A knock came from the front door, and even Jen startled. 
She looked to the door, then back to John and Jessica. Her 
face was grave. “That way,” she said in a voice barely 
above a whisper, pointing down a narrow hallway. “Close the 
door behind you.” The knock came again; John touched 
Jessica’s arm and nodded, and they got up from the table, 
careful not to let the chairs make noise as they dragged 
across the floor. 

The hallway was dark, the only light coming from the 
room they had just left, and John kept a hand on the wall for 
balance. After a second his eyes adjusted, and he could see 
an open door at the end of the hall. 

“John, come on,” Jessica whispered, grabbing his arm 
briefly as she brushed past him and hurried into the room. 

“Yeah,” he said, and stopped moving as his fingers 
touched the frame of a door. 

“John!” Jessica hissed. John tried the door. It opened 
easily; he peered in, and recoiled. 

Someone’s in there! 

“John!” Jessica whispered urgently as the knock at the 
door came again. John didn’t move. 

It took only a second for him to register that the figure in 
the closet was not a person. It was about his height, with a 
roughly human shape, but it resembled nothing that had 
ever been alive. John stepped closer and took his keys from 
his pocket. He switched on the keyring penlight, and swept 


it up and down quickly. His heart stopped. It was a skeleton, 
metal and naked wires, encased in nothing. Its arms hung at 
its sides, and its head was bowed, exposing its open skull, 

the circuits silent and lightless. Its face was bare and metal. 

“john!” Jessica was standing behind the door at the end 
of the hall, holding it open just a crack as she waited for 
him. John closed the closet door, blinded again in the 
darkness, and walked toward the sound of her voice like a 
beacon. His steps took ages, the air like molasses, as the 
thing in the closet echoed in his mind like a gunshot, 
drowning out everything else. 

In a daze, John reached the end of the hall as Jessica 
beckoned frantically. She grabbed his arm and pulled him 
inside, carefully closing the door behind him. 

“What's wrong with you? John, what was in that closet?” 
she whispered, still holding on to his arm, her nails digging 
in, bringing him closer to reality. 

“It was ...” He swallowed. /t was holding a knife. “It was 
the machine Charlie’s father built to kill himself,” he said 
hoarsely. Jessica’s eyes widened, and she stared at him like 
he was a ghost. 

The knock came again, much louder, and they both 
jumped. This time they could hear Jen’s footsteps walking 
toward the sound. Jessica bent and pressed her ear to the 
keyhole. “Do you see anything?” John whispered. The front 
door creaked as it opened. 

“Charlie,” John could hear Jen say. “What a nice surprise. 
Jessica twisted around in her crouched posture. 

“Charlie’s here?” she said, scarcely whispering, and John 
shrugged. 

“Aunt Jen, it’s so wonderful to see you again,” Charlie’s 
voice came through faintly, but clear. Jessica stayed where 


” 


she was, listening for more, but John was restless, and he 
looked around the room. 

They were in a bedroom—at least, there was a bed—but 
it was mostly filled with cardboard boxes and old-fashioned 
wooden trunks. John stumbled around them for a moment, 
then froze, looking as though something had just occurred 
to him. He knelt quietly and opened one of the chests, 
moving slowly to make no sound. 

“John, what are you doing?” Jessica whispered angrily. 

“Something isn’t right here,” John breathed, glancing at 
the door. “Come on, this might be our only chance to find 
out what she’s up to.” John shuffled through some of the 
papers in the first chest, then closed the lid and flipped up 
the top of a nearby cardboard box: It was filled with 
computer parts and mechanisms he didn’t recognize. A 
second and third held massive tangles of electric cable. 
“This looks like stuff I’d expect to find in Charlie’s room,” he 
murmured to himself. 

“Shhh!” Jessica hissed, pressing her ear back against the 
door to the hall. 

“What's going on out there?” John said under his breath. 
“I can barely hear anything.” 

Jessica shook her head. 

“Let me know if you hear someone coming.” John moved 
to a large green chest, the paint almost entirely worn off. 
There was no lock. John knelt beside it, found the handle, 
and heaved it open, then shuddered, falling back and 
pushing himself away. 

“Jessica,” he gasped, moving back to the chest and 
leaning over it. 

“Shhhh!” Jessica hissed from the door, listening intently. 

“Jessica.” 


“What, John? I’m trying to listen.” 

“It’s ... it’s Charlie,” he said hoarsely. “In the chest.” 

“What?” Jessica whispered. She turned around in 
annoyance, her face falling. She dropped to her knees and 
crawled to the chest, where John had gone back to looking 
down at what lay inside. Charlie was curled up in the fetal 
position; she looked like she was sleeping, with a pillow 
under her head and blankets surrounding her. Her brown 
hair was a mess; her face was round; and she was wearing 
light gray sweatpants and a sweatshirt, both too large for 
her. John stared, his heart pounding so hard he could hear 
nothing but the rush of his own blood, not daring to hope, 
until: she took a breath, and then another. She’s alive. John 
reached down into the trunk and touched her cheek: it was 
too cool. His mind snapped out of its first shock. We have to 
get her out of here; she’s sick. He stood and reached 
awkwardly into the trunk, then gently, cautiously, lifted her 
out. He looked down at her in his arms, astonished, all his 
thoughts wordless, except, Charlie. 

Don’t let me go—let go of me, what’s happening? Someone 
touched her cheek, a brief, startling spot of warmth. It was 

gone just as quickly, leaving her colder than before. Come 

back, she tried to say, but she could not remember how to 

make the words come out. 

“Charlie.” That’s my name, someone Is saying my name. 
Charlie tried to open her eyes. / know that voice. Someone's 
arms reached down under her, lifting her from the cramped, 
dark place she’d been so long that memories of somewhere 
else seemed like dreams. She still couldn’t open her eyes. A 


woman said something. / know them. She couldn't 
remember their names. 

The first voice came again, it was a man’s voice, and she 
felt its reverberation as he pulled her against his chest, 
holding her like a child. Warmth radiated from him; he was 
solid and alive. Even standing still, he was filled with 
movement: She could hear his heartbeat, just beside her 
ear. / am alive. He said something else, and the rumble of it 
shook her whole body; the woman answered, and then she 
was jostled painfully. We’re going somewhere. She still 
couldn’t open her eyes. 

“It’s gonna be okay, Charlie,” he whispered, and the 
sleeping world began to pull her down again. / want to stay! 
She began to panic, then as she slipped into 
unconsciousness again, she grabbed hold of the last words 
he’d said. /t’s gonna be okay. 

John clutched Charlie to his chest, then relaxed his grip 
anxiously, afraid of hurting her. 

“How are we going to get her out?” Jessica whispered, 
and he glanced around the room. There was a window, but it 
was high and narrow: getting all three of them through it 
would take time. 

“We'll have to run for it,” he said in a low voice. “Wait 
until ... she leaves.” Jessica met his eyes, her face written 
over with all the questions he had been asking himself for 
the last six months. 

A scream ripped through the silence between them, and 
John came alert. Someone screamed again, and the room 
shuddered with impact from somewhere in the house. John 


looked around wildly for an escape, and his eyes lit ona 
closet door. “There,” he said, nodding toward it. Another 
bang came, and the wall beside them shook; another 
scream, and then a scrabbling sound, like an animal 
scratching at the door. “Hurry,” John whispered, but Jessica 
was already clearing a path. She moved ahead of him, 
moving aside boxes as quickly and soundlessly as she could, 
and he carried Charlie carefully behind, his whole being 
focused on holding her safe. Jessica shoved coats on 
hangers aside, making room, and they crammed themselves 
into the space. 

“It’s gonna be okay, Charlie,” John whispered. Jessica 
closed the door behind them, then stopped, her hand on the 
knob. 

“Wait,” she whispered. 

“What?” 

Jessica ran back across the room carelessly, her steps 
thudding on the wood floor. 

“Jessica, what are you doing?” John hissed, shrinking 
back farther into the recess of the closet, awkwardly 
Shielding Charlie’s head from hangers and hooks with his 
elbow. Jessica reached the window, snapped open the lock, 
and threw it open with a loud bang. John gaped as Jessica 
raced on tiptoe back to the closet, this time making no 
noise. She nestled in beside him, leaving the door open just 
a crack, and rested a hand on Charlie’s shoulder. 

Within an instant, the bedroom door opened, and 
someone stepped through. The light from the rest of the 
house filtered in dimly, and through the tiny crack in the 
door, they could barely make out a silhouette in red, walking 
purposefully across the room. The figure paused for a 


moment, looking outside, then with a rush of movement too 
quick to follow, vanished out the window. 

John stood stock still, his heart pounding, half expecting 
the mysterious figure to appear again in front of them. 
Charlie’s unconscious weight was starting to drag on his 
arms, and he shifted uncomfortably, trying not to jostle her. 

“Come on,” Jessica said. He nodded, though she couldn’t 
see him. Jessica pushed the door open cautiously, and they 
were met with silence. They made their way to the hall, and 
stopped short again: Jen was slumped on the floor, blood 
spattering the wall behind her like an abstract mural, and 
pooled beneath her, trickling across the floor in little 
rivulets. John raised his hand to cover Charlie’s face. There 
was no doubt that Jen was dead: her eyes glazed and 
dimmed with the marble stare of death, her stomach laid 
open. 

“We have to go,” he said hoarsely, and they turned from 
the grotesque scene and hurried out of the house. They ran 
headlong down the hill. John stumbled on the uneven 
gravel, barely catching himself, and Jessica turned back. 
“Go,” he grunted, and clutched Charlie tighter, slowing his 
pace just a little. 

At last they reached the car, and Jessica opened the back 
door and got in, then scooted over to the far side and 
reached out to help him put Charlie inside. Together they 
laid her across the back seat, placing her head in Jessica’s 
lap. John started the car. 

As they sped through the night he kept checking the 
rearview mirror, reassuring himself: Charlie still slept, as 
Jessica twined her fingers in her hair, looking down at her 
face in wonder. John met her eyes in the mirror and saw his 
own thoughts on her face: She’s here. She’s alive. 

Charlie raced down the hill, exhilarated, almost leaping—she 
felt like if she went fast enough she might take off and fly. 
Her heart was beating in a new rhythm; the night air was 
cool and fresh, and all her senses felt heightened: she could 
see anything, hear anything—do anything. 

She reached the bottom of the hill and took off up the 
next one—she had parked her car behind it. She smiled into 
the night, picturing Aunt Jen’s face in the moment it had 
dawned on her what was about to happen. That smooth, 
near-impermeable calm had ruptured; the cold-blooded 
woman had become a soft, frightened animal in the space 
of an instant. At /Jeast she had the dignity not to beg, Charlie 
thought. Or maybe she just knew it wouldn’t help. She 
shivered, then shrugged. 

They had been having pleasantries, then Charlie gave Jen 
a wide, cruel smile, and Jen screamed. Charlie advanced on 
her, and she screamed again; this time Charlie choked off 
the noise, grabbing Aunt Jen by the throat. She lifted her off 
her feet, and slammed her into a door with such force it 
clattered in its hinges. Her aunt tried to crawl away, and she 
caught her by her hair, now sticky with blood, and threw her 
into the wall again. This time she did not try to run, and 
Charlie crouched beside her and put a hand around her 
throat again, taking her time now, relishing the feeling of 
her aunt’s pulse beneath her fingers, and the terrified look 
in her eyes. Jen opened and closed her mouth, gawping like 
a fish, and Charlie watched for a moment, considering. 

“Is there something you'd like to say?” she asked 
mockingly. Jen made a tiny, pained nod, and Charlie leaned 
in close so she could whisper, keeping an iron grip on her 


throat. Jen took a thin, rattling breath, and Charlie 
reluctantly lightened the pressure enough to let her speak. 

Her aunt wheezed for a moment, trying twice to speak 
before the words made it out. “I’ve always ... loved you ... 
Charlie.” 

Charlie pulled back and gave Aunt Jen a calmed look. “1 
love you, too,” she said softly, and then she ripped open her 
stomach. “I really do.” 

Charlie reached her car; she was running so fast she ran 
a few yards past it before she could stop. She wanted to 
keep running, to keep this feeling alive. She opened and 
closed her fists; the blood on them was tacky and growing 
uncomfortable. She started the car and opened the trunk to 
get the first-aid kit she always carried. Standing in the beam 
of the headlights, Charlie took out some gauze and 
hydrogen peroxide and carefully wiped her hands clean 
finger by finger. When she was done, she examined them 
and nodded, satisfied; then she got in her car and sped off 
into the dark. 





John was counting Charlie’s breaths, one-two, three-four, in- 
out, each intake of air a marker of the time going by: that 
this was real, that she was not going to vanish. Hours had 
passed, and the sky outside was lightening, but still he 
could not take his eyes off her. His bed was narrow; she was 
curled on her side as she had been in the trunk, her back 
pressed against the wall, and he was perched on the edge, 
careful not to touch her. Jessica had taken a brief nap on the 
couch, and now she was up again, pacing the short length of 
his bedroom. 

“John, we have to take her to a hospital,” Jessica said for 
the second time since she awoke, and he shook his head. 

“We don’t even know what’s wrong with her,” he said 
softly. Jessica made a frustrated noise in her throat. 


“That’s all the more reason to take her to a hospital,” she 
said, biting the words off individually. 

“| don’t think she'll be safe.” 

“You think she’s safe here?” 

John didn’t answer. One-two, three-four, in-out—he 
realized he was counting her breaths again, and he looked 
away. He could still hear her breathing, though, and the 
count went on nine-ten, eleven-twelve ... He could feel her 
presence beside him; even though they weren’t touching, 
he had a constant awareness that she was close by. 

“John?” Jessica prompted, and he looked first at Charlie, 
then at Jessica. 

“Clay said something,” he said. 

“At the hospital?” Jessica frowned. “Something else?” 

“No, before that. He had Ella at his house.” 

“That creepy doll from Charlie’s bedroom?” 

John hid a smile, remembering. Jessica will like Ella, 
Charlie had once confided to John. She dresses like her. But 
when Charlie had spun the wheel at the end of her bed, the 
one that made Ella glide out from the closet on her track, 
proffering her little tea tray, Jessica took one look at the 
toddler-size doll, screamed, and ran out of the room. 

“Yeah, the creepy doll,” he confirmed, his thoughts 
returning to the present. Jessica made an exaggerated 
shudder. 

“Il don’t know how she could ever sleep, knowing that 
thing was in the closet.” 

“It wasn’t the only closet,” John said, furrowing his brow. 
“There were two more; Ella was in the littlest one.” 

“Well, it wasn’t the location that creeped me out; I’m fine 
with closets ... | take that back, | didn’t like the last one we 
were in,” Jessica said drily. 


“| wish | could go back to that house—” 

“Charlie’s old house? It collapsed; it’s gone,” Jessica 
interrupted him, and he sighed. 

“Ella turned up in the wreckage, but Clay said Charlie 
wasn’t interested in keeping her. It seemed so unlike her; 
her father made that doll for her.” 

“Yeah.” Jessica stopped pacing and leaned against the 
wall, letting everything sink in. “You were right, John.” She 
opened her hands in a helpless gesture. “The other Charlie, 
she’s an imposter; you were right. So, what do we do?” 

John looked down again at Charlie, who stirred in her 
Sleep. “Charlie?” he whispered. 

She made a plaintive sound, then was still again. 

John glanced thoughtfully at his dresser. After a moment, 
he went to it and began digging through the top drawer. 

“What are you looking for?” Jessica asked. 

“There was an old photo, one | found when Charlie and | 
were looking through her dad’s stuff. It was Charlie when 
she was little. | know it’s in here somewhere.” 

Jessica watched him for a moment, then leaned over as 
something caught her attention. She crouched beside the 
dresser and pulled at the corner of something sticking out 
from underneath. “This?” she asked. 

“Yeah, that’s it.” John took the picture carefully and 
studied it. 

“John, | realize you’re having a sentimental moment right 
now, but we really need to get Charlie to the hospital.” 
Jessica peered over his shoulder. “What is all of that stuff 
behind her in the picture? Cups and plates?” 

“She was having a tea party,” John whispered. “I have to 
go to Clay’s house,” he added after a moment. 

“Clay’s still in the hospital.” 


“| have to go back to his house. Stay here. Take care of 
Charlie.” 

“What’s going on?” Jessica demanded as John grabbed 
his car keys from the dresser. “What am | supposed to do if 
Not-Charlie shows up? You saw what she did to Aunt Jen; she 
was probably the one who got Clay. And now she’s gonna be 
after Charlie, too, our Charlie.” John stopped, rubbing his 
temples with one hand. 

“Don’t let her in,” he said finally. “Bolt the door after me, 
push the couch across the door. I'll be back.” 

“John!” 

He left. He waited on the stoop until he heard the 
deadbolt fall into place, then hurried to his car. 

John pulled into Clay Burke’s driveway too fast, slamming on 
the breaks and skidding onto the lawn. He rang the doorbell 
and waited long enough to confirm that no one was there, 
tried the knob and found it locked, then tried to act casual 
as he strolled around to the back of the house. He didn’t 
think the neighbors could see through the hedges 
separating the houses, but there was no reason not to be 
careful. The back door off the kitchen was closed as well, so 
he made his way along the outside wall, looking for a 
window that would open. The living room was where he 
found it: the window was unlocked, and after a few minutes 
of fiddling, he was able to get the screen up, then haul 
himself over the sill, scraping his back against the window 
frame as he squeezed through. 

He landed in a crouch, and stayed there for a moment, 
listening. The house had a thick hush, and a closed-up, stale 


smell; Carlton must have slept at the hospital. John got up 
and went to Clay’s study, not bothering to be quiet. 

He balked when he saw the wreckage: he hadn't 
forgotten the scene: the door smashed, the furniture 
upturned, and papers scattered over the floor like carpeting, 
but it was still a shock to see it. There was also a dark stain 
on the floor where he’d found Clay lying. John stepped over 
it carefully and went into the office. 

He scanned the room quickly: only one corner remained 
undisturbed: Ella was standing there almost concealed 
behind a standing lamp, her tea tray steady in front of her. 

“Hey, Ella,” he said suspiciously. “Do you have something 
that you want to tell me?” he said as he turned his attention 
to the clutter in the room. There were three empty 
cardboard boxes beside the desk, and he went there first: it 
looked like their contents had been dumped out in one big 
pile. Sifting through quickly, he saw that they were all 
related to Freddy Fazbear’s: photographs, papers of 
incorporation, tax forms, police reports, even menus. 
“Where do | start?” he murmured. He came to a photograph 
of Charlie and her father: Charlie was smiling; her father 
was holding her on his hip, pointing to something in the 
distance. He set it down and kept looking. Among the 
papers and photos were other things; the random computer 
chips and mechanical parts that seemed to turn up 
everywhere. He checked his watch; he was getting nervous 
at leaving Jessica alone with Charlie so long. He looked at 
Ella in the corner. “You know what I’m looking for, don’t 
you?” he asked the doll, then sighed and went back to the 
pile. 

On his hands and knees, he surveyed the area, and this 
time noticed a small cardboard box beneath Clay’s desk. It 


was only a few inches across, sealed with packing tape, but 
a corner had ripped open, spilling out part of its contents: 
John could see a bolt and a small strand of copper wire 
stuck to the tape on the outside. He crawled under the desk 
and grabbed it, then ripped the hole wider, not bothering 
with the tape. He stood and dumped out the rest of it on 
Clay’s desk; it was filled with more wires and parts. John 
shook the box and it rattled, and he banged on it until the 
thing that was stuck came out: a square circuit board 
attached to a tangle of wires. He studied it for a second 
before putting it aside and dropped the box, then spread the 
parts across the desk’s surface in a single layer, then sat 
down and peered at them one by one, hoping for something 
familiar. 

It took less than ten seconds to find it: a thin disc about 
the size of a half-dollar coin. His heart skipped, and he held 
the thing up, squinting at it until he saw the tiny words 
engraved along the edge in flowing, old-fashioned script: 
AFTON ROBOTICS, LLC. He swallowed, remembering the 
incapacitating nausea the last disc produced in him; he also 
remembered the more substantial effects the disc was 
capable of. 

John glanced back at Ella, then stood and approached 
her. He knelt beside her, holding the disc firmly in his hand, 
with his thumbnail under the switch on its side. John’s 
balance wavered. He set his jaw firmly and flipped the 
switch. 

In an instant, Ella was gone. In her place was a human 
child, a toddler. She had short, frizzy brown hair and a round 
face set in a happy smile; her chubby hands gripped the tea 
tray determinedly. Only her absolute stillness indicated that 


she was not alive. That, and her vacant eyes, staring 
sightlessly ahead. 

“Can you hear me?” he asked softly. There was no 
movement; the little girl was no more responsive than Ella. 
He reached out to touch her cheek, then pulled his hand 
back suddenly, revolted: her skin was warm and pliable— 
alive. He stood and went back to the desk, keeping his eyes 
on the girl. John clawed at the tiny switch again, flipping it 
back, and the toddler shimmered and blurred for a second, 
then the image solidified: Ella stood calmly in her place 
again, nothing more than a large toy doll. John sat down 
heavily. “Maximum range,” he muttered to himself, recalling 
Clay’s brief moment of consciousness at the hospital. But 
the photographs he’d insisted on giving them hadn’t 
revealed anything. Or had they? 

He went to Clay’s desk and picked up the phone: There 
was a dial tone; it had not been damaged when the place 
was ransacked. He dialed his own number. Please pick up, 
Jessica, he thought. 


“Hello?” 

“Jessica, it’s me.” 
“Who’s me?” 
“John!” 


“Right, sorry. I’m a little jumpy. Charlie’s fine—I mean, 
she’s still asleep; she’s not worse.” 

“Good. That’s not why | called, though. | need you to 
meet me at the library—bring the envelope Clay gave us, 
it’s In my backpack.” 

“All the pictures are gone,” Jessica said. “We left them at 
Jen’s house when we fled for our lives, remember?” she 
added with a hint of sarcasm. 


“| know. We don’t need the pictures. There was a roll of 
microfilm in the envelope.” 

There was a pause on the other end, then, “I'll see you 
there.” 

John turned to look at Ella, scratching his thumb 
thoughtfully across the surface of the disc. “And you; you’re 
coming with me,” he said quietly to Ella. He picked her up 
gingerly, repelled by what he had seen, but she felt just like 
the doll she seemed to be. She was large enough to be 
awkward to carry, so he placed her on his hip like a human 
child, and left through the front door. He stowed the doll in 
his trunk, put the picture of Charlie and her father in the 
visor, and pulled out of Clay’s driveway. 

When John got to the library, Jessica was already in 
conversation with the librarian, a middle-aged man with an 
irritated expression. 

“If you want to use the microfiche reader, | need you to 
tell me what you want to look at. Would you like to see the 
index of our archives?” he asked. It sounded like he had 
asked the question several times already. 

“No, that’s all right, | just need to use the machine,” 
Jessica said. The librarian smiled tensely. 

“The reader is for looking at microfilm; what microfilm do 
you want to look at?” he asked very slowly. 

“l brought my own,” Jessica said breezily. 

The librarian sighed. “Do you know how to use the 
machine?” 

“No,” she said after a moment’s thought. 


John stepped forward quickly. “I know how to use it; I’m 
with her. Can you just let us into the room?” 

The librarian nodded wearily, and they followed him to a 
Small back room, where the microfilm reader was set up. 
“You thread the film through here,” he said, “and turn the 
knobs to advance it.” He gave John a suspicious look. “Got 
it?” 

“Yes, thank you for your help. We are very appreciative,” 
John said as he glared at Jessica. 

As the door closed behind the librarian, Jessica pulled the 
film out of her pocket and handed it over. “Okay, what are 
we looking for?” she asked excitedly, clapping her hands 
with anxious energy. 

“Slow down, okay?” John said wearily. “We almost got 
killed, we don’t even know what’s wrong with Charlie, and 
now you’re giddy like we’re looking for hidden treasure.” 

“Sorry.” Jessica straightened her posture. 

“| think these are the same pictures,” John said as he 
unwound the film and threaded it carefully through the 
machine. He flipped it on, and the first picture appeared: 
Jessica and Charlie, picking outfits in a clothing store. He 
clicked through the next few; they all matched what he 
remembered of the photos, though the order was different— 
chronological, he supposed. 

“They're the same, and they’re not any clearer, either,” 
Jessica said. 

“What?” John went back, trying to see what Jessica had 
noticed that he hadn't. 

“They're not any clearer. Charlie is still blurry,” Jessica 
pointed out. 

“She’s just in motion,” John explained. 

“In all of them?” 


“The picture is clear,” he said again, growing agitated. 
“She’s just walking.” Despite his words, he stopped and 
began to go through the pictures more slowly, studying 
Charlie’s appearance in each one. Jessica was right: Charlie 
was blurry in all of the pictures, even some where she 
appeared to be standing still. John clicked through the 
photos fast, confirming it: there was Jessica and Charlie ina 
clothing store; Marla with them outside Jessica’s apartment; 
Charlie hugging herself as she spoke to John at the Burkes’ 
house that first night—Charlie was blurry in all of them. John 
flipped ahead quickly to the last set: himself with Charlie— 
the false Charlie—sitting in the restaurant where they’d had 
dinner. 

The reel ended on the final picture from that night: 
Charlie nearly lost in the crowd, turning back one last time. 
She was barely visible, far more distant here than in any of 
the other pictures, only recognizable by the color of her 
dress and hair. 

“| still don’t see the point,” Jessica said impatiently. John 
grasped the lens and turned it; the picture shrank. “These 
are the same pictures.” She turned away and sighed. 

“This is the point,” he said, slowly turning it back the 
other way. The film was high-resolution and the image 
continued to enlarge as he zoomed closer to Charlie. 

“What is?” 

John kept zooming in; Jessica gasped, stepping back from 
the machine. John let go of the lens. “It has a maximum 
range,” he said softly. The figure that filled the screen was 
elegant and feminine, but it was not human. The face was 
exquisitely sculpted and was split down the middle, a thin 
seam outlining where the two halves met. The limbs and 
body were segmented plates, their color almost iridescent. 


“It looks like a mannequin,” Jessica gasped. 

“Or a clown,” John added. “I saw her,” he said 
wonderingly. “The night Clay was attacked, she was on the 
road. She looked at me...” The eyes in the photo were 
difficult to see, and John leaned closer to the screen, trying 
to make them out. 

“It’s the imposter, it’s the other Charlie,” Jessica 
breathed. John snapped off the projector, blinking as the 
haunting figure disappeared. He took the disc from his 
pocket and handed it to Jessica. She turned it over in her 
hand, her eyes widening. “Is this hers?” 

“No,” John said shortly. “But I’m guessing that our mutual 
friend has one just like it, messing with our heads when 
we’re around her and making us see her as Charlie.” He 
leaned back against the table. “I think Clay took those 
pictures; | think he suspected something like this but 
needed to prove it.” 

“| don’t understand.” 

“These things, these discs, send out signals that 
overwhelm your brain, causing you to not see what’s really 
in front of you. Now, that wouldn’t work on a camera, 
obviously, but Henry thought of that, too.” 

“So, the frequency or whatever it emits causes the image 
to blur,” Jessica said, catching on. 

“Exactly, but it has a maximum range. The signal fades; 
that’s why he captured these from a distance. He suspected 
that whatever was causing the illusion must have its limits.” 
John began putting the film back into his bag. “That’s why 
she looks human in the other pictures, at least, human 
enough when blurred.” 

Jessica studied the disc again for a moment before John 
took it back. “I still don’t understand,” she said. She looked 


around as though suddenly afraid of being caught. 

“| think it’s exactly what | suspected,” he said. “Except | 
was completely wrong.” 

“Oh, that makes perfect sense,” Jessica quipped. 

“| had all these theories about Charlie,” John said. “And 
even though | may have been wrong about the details, | 
suspected that Charlie, our Charlie, had been swapped out 
with an imposter. But it wasn’t a twin brother, or a twin 
sister. Afton swapped her out with ... this.” 

“A robot?” Jessica said skeptically. “Like from Freddy’s? 
John, that was different. People, kids, had been murdered. 
Those robots were haunted. | don’t even believe in 
hauntings, but those things were haunted! Robots like what 
you're talking about don’t exist, at least ... not yet. Plus, she 
knew everything Charlie did, how could Afton have 
programmed that?” 

“She didn’t know everything, though. She blamed all the 
gaps in her memory on the near-death experience; her 
personality changed—everything changed—and we all 
believed she had just turned over a new leaf,” he said 
bitterly. 

“You didn’t,” Jessica said, and he met her eyes. 

“Yeah, but | wanted to. Something just wasn’t right.” 

Jessica was quiet for a moment. “Why did she kill Jen?” 
she said abruptly. 

“What?” 

“Why would she kill Jen?” she repeated. 

“Charlie’s aunt Jen knew her better than anyone,” John 
said. “She must have known she couldn’t fool her.” 

“Yeah, maybe.” Jessica bit her lip, then her face took ona 
look of alarm. “Or she went there—” 

“To find Charlie,” John cut in. 


“John, we left her alone; we have to go back.” 

John was already out the door, running headlong across 
the library to the exit. Jessica ran after him. They both got 
into John’s car and he hit the gas, clenching his jaw as they 
sped toward his apartment. 





Have you forgotten something?” the man snapped, and the 
woman gave him a level stare. 

“| forget nothing.” 

“Then why are you not already on your way?” He lifted 
his arm weakly and gestured toward the door. 

“Time is running short,” she said. “I do not understand 
why we are spending our time— your time—pursuing this 
thing. | am better used here.” 

The man was silent. 

“We are seeing results,” she added, but he shook his 
head. 

“We are seeing nothing.” He held up a finger before she 
could protest. “Anyone can discover a fire already burning, 
but Henry found a unique spark—created something truly 
different, something he didn’t deserve, or intend, to stumble 


upon.” He gave the woman a sharp look. “You will bring it to 
me.” The woman cast her eyes to the floor, and when she 
spoke there was something pleading in her voice. 

“Am | not enough?” she asked softly. 

“No, you’re not,” he said firmly, looking away. 

The woman paused, then walked out the door, not 
looking back. 

Neither of them spoke as they sped toward John’s 
apartment. He gripped the wheel until his knuckles turned 
white, trying not to imagine what they might find. 

When he turned into the lot, he let out a shaky breath: 
the few cars belonged to his neighbors, and his door was 
intact. He gave Jessica a curt nod, and they got out of the 
car. Jessica followed close behind and stood beside him, 
facing the parking lot, as he unlocked the door. Jessica 
jabbed him in the side hard with her elbow just as he was 
about to turn the key, and he jerked it back from the lock. 
“OW! What the ... ?” He whirled around angrily to Jessica, 
then immediately straightened his posture and threw ona 
big smile. 

“Charlie!” he blurted. The elegant woman approached 
them, and John reflexively took a step back. “Where did you 
come from? | mean, we didn’t see your car. What a nice 
Surprise,” he added hastily. The woman who was not Charlie 
smiled easily. 

“I’ve been out walking, | wanted to clear my head. | 
realized | was near you and thought I’d stop by. Is that 
okay?” 


John nodded, stalling for time. “Of course! It’s great to 
see you!” John blurted, painfully aware that he was 
overselling. “My place is a mess, though. Bachelor pad, you 
know?” He forced a grin. “Do you and Jessica mind waiting 
out here while | clean up a little?” 

Charlie laughed. “John, you saw my dorm room last year 
—I can handle a little mess!” 

“Well, unlike you last year, I’m not working on a crazy 
brilliant science project, so | have no excuse,” he said. 

Jessica jumped in. “How about that project, Charlie? Did 
you keep working on it? How’s it looking?” 

Charlie turned to Jessica as if seeing her for the first time. 
“I lost interest,” she said. John seized his chance: he 
unlocked the door, slipped inside, and locked it behind him 
before the imposter could follow. In his bedroom, Charlie, his 
Charlie was still curled up on his bed, her back pressed 
against the wall; she didn’t look like she’d moved since he 
left. 

“Charlie,” he whispered. “I’m sorry, but | have to move 
you, now. I'll be careful.” He scooped her up with care. She 
was warm in his arms, and her eyes twitched beneath her 
lids: she was dreaming. John held on tightly, looking around 
the room for a place to hide her—his failure to furnish the 
place beyond the essentials was working against him. John 
carried Charlie out into the living room: the couch was at an 
angle to the wall, leaving a tiny, triangular space behind it. 
John set Charlie on the couch temporarily, took a blanket 
that had been in a heap on the floor, and tossed it down into 
the space, giving her at least a little cushion. Then he 
climbed over, picked her up, and lifted her over the back, 
settling her on the floor. He barely fit, even standing, and he 
kept his eyes behind him as he climbed back over the 


couch, afraid of kicking her. There was another gray blanket 
draped over the end of the couch, something left by a 
previous tenant, and he grabbed it and spread it over 
Charlie, covering her face. 

Someone knocked on the door. “John?” Jessica called. 
“Are you almost done cleaning?” There was an edge of panic 
in her voice. John looked around. There was no evidence of a 
mess, or him having just hurriedly cleaned one. He rushed 
to the bedroom and grabbed some laundry from his laundry 
basket, then carried it with him to answer the door. 

“Sorry,” he said, aiming for a sheepish expression. “| 
don’t get a lot of guests.” Jessica smiled nervously and the 
other Charlie flashed a grin as she pushed in past him. 

“Looks pretty nice,” she said, turning to him. “How’s the 
neighborhood?” 

“... Fine,” John managed, disconcerted to be face-to-face 
with her, moments after the real Charlie. This time he could 
see the differences—he could have written a list. The 
impression that this woman, with her glamorous allure, was 
simply Charlie, grown into her beauty with grace and new 
self-assurance, was gone. Now, the individual features stuck 
out on her face like warts—each one a marker that this was 
not Charlie. Nose too narrow, cheeks too hollow. Eyes too far 
apart. Hairline too high. Eyebrows at the wrong angle. The 
disparities were minute, millimeters or less: the only way to 
be sure would be to look at Charlie and her robotic double 
side by side. Or one right after the other. The imposter 
Charlie gave him a subtle smile and shifted her balance, as 
though about to come closer. John cleared his throat, 
hunting for something to say, but Charlie had already looked 
away and was now glancing around the living room. Behind 
her, Jessica was giving him a questioning look, probably 


wondering where the real Charlie was. John ignored her: 
Not-Charlie strode past him into his bedroom, and he 
followed quickly. 

“Right!” John bolted into action. “So, this is my 
bedroom,” he said, as if the tour had been his own idea. 

“Nice,” Charlie murmured, surveying the room. She 
turned in a circle, taking it all in, then went to the dresser, 
and turned to inspect the room again from there. 

“So, hey, we should all go hang out later or something!” 
Jessica said suddenly, but Charlie didn’t answer. Instead, 
she knelt slowly and peered under the bed. Jessica and John 
exchanged a nervous glance. 

“Not much to see. It’s just me here.” John laughed. 
Jessica elbowed him and made a disapproving expression. 
/’m being too obvious again, he realized. John could feel his 
pulse in his throat, immediately regretting what he’d said. 
Please don’t look around. Charlie went into the bathroom 
and glanced around it, opening the medicine cabinet and 
examining the contents. Jessica gave John a perplexed look, 
then it occurred to her. She’s looking for signs that 
someone’s been injured. Charlie began to close the cabinet, 
then caught sight of her own reflection and paused, her 
hand still on the cabinet door, looking at herself. She was 
still for a long moment, then her eyes darted to John in the 
mirror, and she made a face. 

“| hate mirrors,” she remarked, then turned away and 
pulled back his shower curtain. 

“| know right? They add ten pounds,” John said mildly. 

“Il think that’s cameras,” Jessica corrected. 

“Well, mirrors add at least five,” John whispered. 

“Maybe you just need to lose weight.” 

“Are we really having this conversation now?” 


They continued to watch Charlie. “She’s searching,” 
Jessica whispered. “She’s not even trying to hide it.” 

John worried. Charlie paused and opened the bedroom 
closet, then crouched down to look in the open space under 
his hanging shirts and jackets. She stood and went back into 
the living room: Jessica followed, sprinting to get ahead of 
her and sitting on the couch quickly, crossing her legs. 
Charlie went to the kitchenette and opened the refrigerator, 
then closed it. 

“Are you hungry?” Jessica asked. “I’m sure John has 
something you can eat.” 

“No, thank you. How have you been, Jessica?” Charlie 
asked, crossing the room to the couch. John’s whole body 
went rigid as he willed himself not to run across the room 
and yank her away. Instead, he opened the fridge himself, 
forcing himself to breathe as, from the corner of his eye, he 
watched her sit down beside Jessica. 

“Anybody want a water? Or a soda?” he called. 

“Yes, please,” Jessica said with a strain in her voice, 
coughing loudly. John grabbed two cans and brought them 
over. Jessica took hers eagerly. “Thank you,” she said with 
too much emphasis, and he nodded. 

“Yeah, of course.” He smiled stiffly at Charlie, and she 
looked back: every moment she was there, he felt more and 
more like his skin was about to crawl off his bones. He would 
have thought it was a side effect of her chip, except it had 
not happened until he knew what she was. 

“Sit down, John.” Charlie smiled, gesturing to the arm of 
the couch beside her. 

“Sorry | don’t have chairs and stuff. | never meant to live 
here long-term,” John explained nervously. 


“How long have you been here?” Charlie’s familiar voice 
was like tin. 

John sat down beside her. “Since—everything. This is 
where | lived when | first came here.” 

“Oh.” She glanced around the room again. “I guess | 
don’t remember it.” 

“You never saw it,” he said, unable to keep the coldness 
from his voice. Jessica shot him a warning glance, and he 
took a deep breath. Charlie began scanning the room again. 
She stared straight ahead, her face taking on a look of 
concentration. Her eyes swept up and down the room in 
strokes, her head and torso slowly turning until she was 
looking almost directly behind her: in a second, she would 
see the gap behind the couch. “Charlie, | had fun the other 
night,” John said quickly, forcing himself to mean it. “Do you 
want to have dinner again tonight?” 

She turned back around, looking surprised. “Yes, of 
course—that sounds great, John. Same place?” 

“Same place. Around seven?” 

“Sure.” 

“Great!” Jessica declared, and stood. “Anyway, | have to 
go,” she said. “Want to walk out with me, Charlie?” She 
glanced nervously at John, and he got up quickly. 

“I can give you a ride if you need one,” he volunteered, “1 
know you Said you were walking.” 

Thank you, Jessica mouthed from behind her back. 

“No,” Charlie said. “I think I’ll Keep walking. I’m not 
parked too far away. It’s really nice outside.” 

“Okay, then,” John said. Charlie moved gracefully across 
the living room and let herself out. Jessica let out a long 
breath like she’d been holding it. They went to the window 


and, silently, they watched the imposter go, until she had 
disappeared around a bend in the road. 

“What if she comes back?” Jessica said. “I don’t want you 
alone with that thing,” she finished, practically spitting the 
last word. John nodded in vigorous agreement. 

“| don’t want to be alone with her, either,” he said. 

Jessica looked thoughtful for a moment. “I won’t be gone 
long,” she said. “We need help. And if you don’t think 
Charlie should go to the hospital, then the hospital has to 
come to her.” 

“Marla?” 

“Marla.” And with that, she went to the door quickly. John 
walked out with her, and watched uneasily as Jessica got in 
her car and drove off. Then he went back inside and shut 
the door, locking and bolting it. A /ot of good this will do, he 
thought as he slipped the chain into place. 

“Charlie?” he called softly. He didn’t expect an answer, 
but he wanted—felt almost compelled—to talk to her. 
“Charlie, | wish you could hear me,” he went on, going to 
the bedroom closet and pulling out all two of his other 
blankets. “I think it’s safer for you to stay where you are 
than in the bedroom.” He pulled the couch a little farther 
from the wall, trying to figure out how best to make her 
more comfortable. At a loss, he grabbed a pillow and leaned 
down, reaching to remove the blanket that covered her face. 

“Sorry I’ve only got the one pillow,” he said, trying not to 
lose his balance. 

“’"S okay,” came a muffled murmur from beneath the 
blanket, and John fell back, tumbling over the seat and 
barely catching himself before his head hit the floor. 

“Charlie?” he cried, then lowered his voice as he climbed 
back up. “Charlie, are you awake?” There was no answer. 


This time he did not try to climb into the space behind the 
couch, and bent over to see. She was Stirring, just a little. 
“Charlie, it’s me, John,” he said, his voice hushed, but 
urgent. “If you can hear me, hold on to the sound of my 
voice.” He stopped, as she sat up and pulled the blanket off 
her face. 

He stared down at her, as astonished as the moment 
when he first saw her. Her face was red, and her hair was 
sticking to her skin after being under the blanket; her eyes 
were barely open; she blinked rapidly in the light, looking 
down and away. John leaped up and rushed to shutter the 
front window blinds. He closed the bedroom door and pulled 
the kitchen curtains. The apartment, never bright at its best, 
was nearly dark. He hurried back to Charlie’s hiding place, 
grabbed one end of the couch, and pulled it out farther, 
enough for him to crawl behind with her. She was still 
sitting, leaning against the wall, but she looked limp, like 
she wouldn't be able to do it much longer. He reached out to 
steady her, but when his hand touched her arm she made a 
distressed, high-pitched noise, and he drew back instantly. 
“Sorry. It’s me, John,” he repeated, and she turned her head 
to see him. 

“John,” she said, her voice thin and rasping. “I Know.” Her 
breathing was ragged, and talking seemed to take effort. 
She reached out feebly with one hand. 

“What do you need?” he asked, searching her face. She 
reached out farther and then he understood; he took her 
hand. 

“| won't ever let go of you again,” he whispered. She 
smiled faintly. 

“Could get awkward,” she whispered. She opened her 
mouth as if to go on, then sighed, shuddering. John scooted 


closer, alarmed. 

“What’s—” She took another breath. “Wrong with me?” 
she finished in a rush. She opened her eyes, looking at him 
plaintively. 

“How do you feel?” he asked, avoiding the question. 

“Tired ... everything hurts,” she said haltingly, her eyes 
drifting shut, and he clenched his jaw, trying to keep his 
face neutral. 

“I’m trying to help you,” he said finally. “Look, you have 
to know—there’s someone, something, out here 
impersonating you; saying that she is you.” Her eyes 
Snapped open and she squeezed his hand suddenly: she 
was alert. “She looks just like you. | don’t know why, | don’t 
know what she’s after, but I’m going to find out. And I’m 
going to help you.” 

“Afton,” she breathed, her voice barely audible, and John 
quickly reached over the couch to grab the pillow he’d 
brought. 

“Can you lift your head?” he asked, and she did, slightly, 
letting him slide the pillow into place. “We know it’s Afton,” 
he said, picking up her hand when she was settled again; 
she squeezed it lightly. “I have one of the chips. Afton 
Robotics. Charlie, I’ve got this. Clay’s helping, and Jessica, 
and we’re getting Marla to help you get better. It’s going to 
be okay. Okay?” 

But Charlie had drifted back into unconsciousness; he 
had no idea how much she had heard, or understood. Her 
hand had gone limp in his own. 

Someone that looks like me ... Never let go ... John? Charlie 
struggled to order her thoughts: things that had made sense 
a moment ago were losing their shape, drifting out of reach 
in a dozen directions like petals on the water. The door... 

“It’s going to be okay,” John said, but she didn’t know if 
he said it in her head or in the world. She felt herself 
slipping back into the dark; she tried to hold on, but the 
exhaustion was weightier than she was, pulling her 
inexorably down with it. 

Charlie glanced at the door again. He’s /ate, or I’m early. 
She picked up the fork in front of her and ran her thumb 
over the smooth metal; the tines hit her water glass with a 
clear ding! and she smiled at the sound. She hit the glass 
again. How much does he know? 

Charlie struck the glass again, and this time she noticed 
several other patrons turning to look at her in confusion. 
She smiled politely, then set her fork down on the table and 
folded her hands in her lap. Charlie took in a breath and 
composed herself. 

As John approached the restaurant he could see that Not- 
Charlie was already there. She had changed her clothes. He 
hadn’t really registered what she had been wearing before, 
but now she had on a tight, short red dress—he would have 
remembered that. He stopped on the sidewalk, just out of 
her sight, steeling himself. He couldn’t get the other image 
out of his mind, the painted face with the soldering line 
splitting it down the middle. Charlie was sitting back in her 


chair; there was nothing in front of her but a water glass. 
She had ordered food when they last met here, but John 
couldn’t picture her actually eating it. He couldn’t remember 
noticing her not eating, either. 

“Stop stalling!” came a crackling voice from his waist, 
and he jumped. He extricated the walkie-talkie from his 
jacket pocket and turned away from the restaurant before 
speaking into it, just in case Not-Charlie looked out. 

“I’m not stalling,” he said. 

“You shouldn't be able to hear us,” Jessica’s distorted 
voice reminded him. “Did you tape the button down?” 

“Right, hang on.” John examined the walkie-talkie: The 
tape he had placed over the button to transmit had come 
loose. He replaced it, flattening it down against the uneven 
surface with his fingernail. He slipped the device back in his 
pocket and went inside. 

John glanced briefly around the restaurant as he entered. 
Jessica and Carlton were huddled together in a high-backed 
booth, out of Charlie’s sight. “Can you both still hear me?” 
John whispered. Carlton’s hand raised above the back of the 
booth momentarily with a triumphant thumbs-up, bringing a 
real smile to John’s face. John turned his attention back to 
Charlie, who had not yet noticed him. 

She lifted her head abruptly from the menu as he 
approached the table, as if sensing his presence. She 
flashed him a bright smile. 

“Sorry I’m late,” John said as he sat down. 

“That’s usually my line,” Charlie joked, and he grinned 
uneasily. 

“| guess so.” He looked at her for a moment: he had 
rehearsed things to say, but his mind had gone blank. 


“So, | heard you and Jessica visited that old ghost town.” 
Charlie giggled. “What’s that place called again?” She 
leaned in and rested her chin on her hand again. 

“Ghost town?” John said unevenly, trying to keep his 
expression neutral. It took everything he had not to turn and 
look at Jessica and Carlton behind him. Charlie was looking 
at him expectantly, and he took a sip of water. “You mean 
Silver Reef?” he said, setting down the glass carefully. 

“Yes, | mean Silver Reef.” She was smiling, but her face 
looked tight, like there was something ravenous waiting just 
below the surface. “That’s a strange place to go, John.” She 
cocked her head slightly. “Just out seeing the sights?” 

“I’ve always been a... history buff. The, the gold rush—” 

“Silver,” Charlie corrected. 

“Silver. Yes. That too. Just fascinating times in history.” 
John was tempted to turn and see if Jessica approved of his 
reply or if she was scrambling out of her seat to flee the 
restaurant. “You didn’t know that about me, did you?” He 
straightened his posture. “I love history: historic towns, 
places.” He cleared his throat. 

Charlie picked up her water glass and drank; she set it 
down so he could see the red lipstick mark she left. John 
drew back slightly and looked elsewhere, searching for 
anything he could lock eyes with but her. “Why were you 
there?” Charlie asked, recalling his attention. 

“| was—” he started, then paused, taking a moment to 
gather his thoughts. “I was looking for an old friend,” he 
said, his answer calm. She nodded, then met his eyes. He 
blinked, but forced himself not to look away. He had seen 
eyes like those before: not the madness of Springtrap, or 
the uncanny, living plastic of the other robots, but the stark, 


brutal gaze of a creature bent on survival. Charlie was 
looking at him like he was prey. 

“Did you find your old friend?” she asked, her tone warm, 
and out of place. 

“Yes. | did,” John said, not flinching from her stare. 
Charlie’s eyes narrowed, the facade between them growing 
thinner by the moment. John leaned forward on his crossed 
arms, resting all his weight on the table between them. “1 
found her,” he said in a low voice. There was a brief flare of 
something on Charlie’s face—surprise, maybe, and she 
leaned in closer across the table, mimicking his pose. John 
tried not to flinch as Charlie’s arms slid closer to his. 

“Where is she?” Charlie asked, her tone as soft as John’s. 
Her smile was gone. 

“Il don’t know what it will take to show these people what 
you really are,” John said. “But | can try all sorts of things 
before you make it out that door.” He grasped his soda 
glass, not looking away from her. “I'll start with this glass of 
soda, then I'll try a chair over the back of your head, and 
we'll go from there.” 

Charlie tilted her head, as though taking in his posture. 
He knew his hand was twitching, and his face was red. His 
heart was racing; he could feel his pulse pounding at his 
throat. Charlie smiled, then stood and gently leaned over 
the table. John set his jaw, keeping his eyes fixed on her. 
Charlie kissed his cheek, placing a hand on the side of his 
neck. She kept it there as she moved away, watching his 
eyes. Charlie smiled, her fingers resting on his pulse for a 
scant moment before letting them drift away. John snapped 
back in his seat as if she’d been holding him in place. 

“Thank you for dinner, John,” she said, the words 
sounding almost giddy. She slowly let her hand recoil, as if 


relishing the moment. “It’s always so wonderful to see you.” 
She turned away, not waiting for a response, and went to 
pay the bill. 

There was a long pause. “She’s gone.” John’s voice came 
over the walkie-talkie. Jessica looked to Carlton; he seemed 
Slightly in shock, staring after Charlie like he’d been 
hypnotized. “Carlton!” Jessica hissed. He snapped out of it, 
Shaking his head. 

“She looks hot!” Carlton said. 

Jessica reared back and slapped Carlton as hard as she 
could. 

“You idiot! You’re supposed to be watching his back, not 
watching her butt! Besides, she put your father in the 
hospital!” 

“No, no, | Know. Very serious ...” He trailed off, obviously 
distracted. 

“Why did | even bring you along?” Jessica scooted out of 
the booth and got to her feet clumsily. 

“Where are you going?” Carlton asked. 

“| have an idea; stay here.” Jessica sighed. “You take my 
Car.” 

Carlton called after, but she didn’t stop to answer, 
merely threw her car keys behind her. Carlton made his way 
over to John’s booth. 

“Hey. Are you okay?” John didn’t turn at the sound of 
Carlton’s voice beside him. 

“No. Not really okay.” John leaned back in his seat, 
looking up at the plaster ceiling, then finally turned to look 
at Carlton. “Where's Jessica?” John asked instantly. 


“I’m not sure, she ran out ...” Carlton gestured toward 
the parking lot, and John turned just in time to see Charlie 
pull out onto the road and drive away. 

“She did something stupid, didn’t she?” John said wearily. 
Carlton met his eyes, then they both ran for the door. 

Jessica kept low and snuck to the back exit of the 
restaurant; she could see Charlie was still standing at the 
front desk taking care of the bill. Jessica slipped out the 
back door and ran around the perimeter of the building, her 
high heels clacking on the sidewalk. She yanked them off 
and threw them into the bushes, then kept running, 
barefoot. 

“Jessica, what are you doing?” she muttered to herself. 
As she rounded the corner of the building into the parking 
lot, she spotted Charlie’s car and made a beeline for it. The 
front door was unlocked. Jessica quickly popped the trunk, 
shut the door, and slipped inside, not closing the trunk lid all 
the way. 

A minute later there was noise from inside the vehicle, 
and Jessica strained to listen: it sounded like voices. No, a 
voice, she realized after a few minutes. Charlie was talking, 
but there was no one answering her. Jessica concentrated, 
trying to isolate the sounds, but she could make out 
nothing: whatever Charlie was saying, it was unintelligible 
from the trunk. Jessica balanced herself carefully, trying to 
lay as flat as she could while bracing her arm in the air to 
hold the latch of the trunk. If she didn’t hold it tight enough, 
it would visibly bounce and Charlie would notice it. But if 


She pulled it too close, the trunk might shut, and she would 
be trapped. 

After about ten minutes, the car stopped short; Jessica 
was thrown back against the wall, almost losing hold of the 
latch. Regaining her balance, she held very still, listening. 
The driver’s side door opened; then closed a moment later. 
Jessica heard the faint sound of Charlie walking away, 
crunching over gravel, then silence. Jessica sighed in relief, 
but did not move. She began to count: “One Mississippi ... 
two Mississippi ...” she breathed, barely a whisper. There 
was no sound but her own hushed voice as she counted all 
the way to sixty, then stopped and scooted closer to the 
trunk door. She gently eased her grip of the trunk handle, 
letting the hood rise slowly. 

The car was parked in the center of a large parking lot, 
illuminated impossibly bright by streetlamps. The light was 
tinged with red, and Jessica turned to see a large neon sign 
directly overhead, flooding the lot with brilliant reds and 
pinks and blocking her view of anything beyond. The air 
buzzed loudly with the noise of what must have been a 
hundred fluorescent bulbs. Jessica squinted and raised a 
hand to shade her eyes: the enormous, smiling face of a 
little girl stared down at her, glowing neon against the night 
Sky. She was made up to look like a clown: her face was 
painted white, and her cheeks were marked with round, pink 
circles, her nose a matching triangle. Her bright orange hair 
was tied up in two pigtails on either side of her head, and 
beside her were fat, red letters outlined in yellow. Jessica 
peered at the backward sign for a moment before the letters 
made sense: CIRCUS BABY’S PIZZA. The glare of the light began 
to hurt her eyes, and she looked away, then ran toward the 


dark building at the edge of the lot, blinking to get the 
afterimage of the neon sign out of her head. She stumbled 
through a row of hedges to press into a white brick wall, 
which seemed brand-new. She lowered her hand from her 
face, her eyes adjusted to the light, and she saw a long row 
of tall, vertical windows along the face of the wall. 

She went to the nearest one and pressed her face to the 
glass, but the tint was too dark to see even a shadow of 
what lay behind it. Jessica gave up on the windows and 
walked quickly to the back of the building, keeping close to 
the brick wall. The neon whites and reds faded as Jessica 
made her way around back, sinking into darkness. 

There was more parking in the back, though it, too, was 
unoccupied. A single bulb flickered above a plain metal 
door, throwing off a sickly yellow color, which seemed to 
stick to everything. Trash cans lined the wall, and two 
Dumpsters enclosed the small area, shielding the door from 
outside view. Jessica crept toward the door, careful not to 
step on anything. She gave it a gentle pull, but it was sealed 
shut. She balanced against the frame as she pushed herself 
up onto her toes, and grinned. She could see inside. 

Inside was a dimly lit room. Charlie was there: she was in 
profile, talking to someone just beyond Jessica’s view, 
though she could not hear either voice. Jessica inched along 
the ridge, trying to see the other person, but all she could 
make out was the blur of movement as someone gestured. 
After a few minutes, her calves began to ache, and she 
eased herself back down off her toes and flexed her feet. 
She sighed and pushed herself up on her toes again, then 
pressed her face closer, cupping a hand over her eyes to 
block the outside light. It was no use—the room was empty, 
or at least, the light had gone off. Jessica stepped back and 


reluctantly turned to find another place to peer inside—then 
screamed, slapping a hand over her mouth though she was 
too late to stifle the sound. 

Charlie smiled. “Jessica,” she said innocently, “you 
should have told me you were coming here, you could have 
ridden with me.” 

“Right, well, | ran outside to catch you, but you’d already 
left.” Jessica stepped back, her heart racing. Every fiber of 
her being was telling her to run, but she knew she would 
never make it past the imposter who stood before her. 

“Do you want to come in?” Charlie asked, still soeaking 
like they were friends. 

“Yeah, I'd love to; | just couldn’t find the door.” Jessica 
gestured back toward the parking lot. Charlie nodded. 

“It’s on the other side,” she said, taking a step closer. 
Jessica stepped back again. 

“What brings you here, anyway?” Jessica asked, trying to 
sound calm. Does she not know that I know? Will she let me 
leave if 1 play along? 

“! can show you,” Charlie said. Jessica kept her face 
blank; her muscles were so tense they were beginning to 
fatigue, and she breathed in deeply, trying to relax. But 
Jessica was suddenly aware that Charlie was steering her 
closer to a wall where she would be pinned. 

“It’s late, though; | should get going,” Jessica said, 
making herself smile. 

“It’s not late,” Charlie protested, gazing at the sky. 
Jessica hesitated, grasping for an excuse, and Charlie’s eyes 
darted back to Jessica as she took another step forward. She 
was close enough for Jessica to feel her breath on her skin, 
but Charlie was not breathing. 


Charlie smiled broadly, and Jessica drew back, her head 
pressing painfully into the brick wall. Charlie’s smile grew 
wider and wider, elongating impossibly, then suddenly her 
lips were split at the middle as a wide seam appeared, 
bisecting her face from top to bottom. Jessica shrank back, 
curling in on herself instinctually, and as she did Charlie 
seemed to grow taller, her limbs segmenting at the joints 
like a moveable doll. Her features slowly paled and faded 
away, replaced by the iridescent, clown-painted metal face 
they had just been able to make out in Clay’s pictures. 

“Do you like my new look?” Charlie asked, her voice still 
soft and human. Jessica inhaled shudderingly, afraid to 
speak. The creature Charlie had become looked at her 
searchingly. For an instant, an acrid, chemical scent filled 
the air, then Charlie moved swiftly toward Jessica, and the 
world went dark. 





I can't see. 

Jessica closed her eyes and opened them again, but the 
darkness remained. She tried again, realizing with a rising 
panic that she could not move. The air stank of something 
rotten, turning her stomach, and she forced herself to 
breathe deeply. /’// stop noticing it if | breathe. She tried 
again to move, testing to see what was restraining her. She 
was confined in a sitting position: Her wrists were tied 
together behind her, her arms pulled uncomfortably around 
the back of a wooden chair and her ankles bound to its legs. 
She pulled against the restraints, almost tipping the chair 
over as she struggled to free herself, but she could not 
break away. Then there was light. 

Jessica stopped moving. She blinked in the sudden 
brightness, her vision resolving. Charlie’s imposter stood in 


the light of the window, revealed in her true form: She was 
undeniably an animatronic, but she was nothing like any 
other Jessica had ever seen. She was human-size—the same 
size as Charlie—modeled on a human woman, of sorts, her 
bifurcated face painted with rosy cheeks and a bright red 
nose, and her enormous, round eyes were rimmed with 
long, black lashes. She even had hair, two silky orange 
pigtails sprouting from the sides of her head, gleaming 
unnaturally in the light—Jessica couldn’t tell what her hair 
was made of. She was wearing a red-and-white costume—or 
rather the metal segments of her body were painted to look 
like a costume; at her waist, a red skirt stuck out playfully. 
She was standing very still, and she was staring straight at 
Jessica. Jessica froze, afraid to breathe, but the creature just 
tilted her metal head to the side, watching. Her animatronic 
face looked familiar, but she still felt fuzzy and couldn’t 
recall where she’d seen it. 

“| don’t suppose you’d give me a hand with these?” 
Jessica lifted her feet the quarter inch the restraints would 
allow. The animatronic smiled. 

“No, | don’t suppose | would,” she said, her voice 
alarmingly unchanged. Jessica shrank back, revolted at the 
sound of her friend’s voice coming from this singular new 
creature. 

“Who are you?” Jessica asked. 

“I’m Charlie.” 

Jessica looked around the dimly lit room helplessly. Apart 
from the chair, the only object she could see was a gigantic, 
old-fashioned coal-burning furnace, with a warm orange 
glow emanating from the thin vents in its door. 

“At least,” the creature began, “part of me is Charlie.” 
She held her hand out in front of her, studying it. Jessica 


looked up and suddenly it was Charlie standing in the light 
of the window, looking confused and innocent. “It’s 
strange,” the animatronic said. “| have these memories. | 
know they don’t belong to me; and yet at the same time, 
they do.” She paused, and Jessica returned to wrestling with 
the knots. “I know that they don’t belong to me because | 
don’t fee/ anything when they come to mind. They are just 
there, like a long road you walk on, lined with billboards of 
things happening somewhere else.” 

“Well, what do you feel?” Jessica muttered, trying to drag 
out the conversation as her survival instincts kicked in. 

The animatronic girl’s eyes darted toward her. “I feel ... 
disappointment,” she said, her voice growing more tense. 
“Desperation.” She looked out the window. “A father’s 
disappointment, and a daughter’s desperation,” she 
whispered. 

“Henry?” Jessica gasped. The girl looked back at her. 

“No. Not Henry. He was more brilliant than Henry. | 
watched my father work from a distance, a great, great, 
distance.” Her voice trailed off. Jessica waited for her to go 
on, half forgetting that she was trying to escape. “I see 
everything clearly now,” the animatronic continued. “But in 
my memories ... things were much simpler, which made it 
SO much more painful. Now | know that people are all 
fading, fragile, inconsequential. But when you are a child, 
your parents are everything: They are your world, and you 
don’t know anything else. When you are a little girl, your 
father is your world. How tragic and miserable such an 
existence is.” Jessica felt a wave of dizziness and looked up 
to see that the animatronic now appeared as the clown 
again, but the image passed. Suddenly, it was Charlie in the 
light, but the moment’s disruption in the illusion was 


enough to remind Jessica of where she was—and that she 
had to get away. 

The animatronic girl stood beside the only window in the 
room. There was a door nearby; she was closer to it than 
the animatronic, not that she could count on outrunning her. 
What else am | going to try? Tentatively, keeping her eyes 
fixed on her captor, Jessica started working her wrists back 
and forth, trying to loosen the rope that held her. The girl 
watched, but did not move to stop her, so Jessica kept 
going. 

“That’s the flaw, and the greatest sin of humanity,” the 
girl said. “You are born with none of your intelligence, but all 
of your heart, fully capable of feeling pain, and torment, but 
with no power to understand. It opens you up to abuse, to 
neglect, to unimaginable pain. All you can do is feel.” She 
studied her hands again. “All you can do is feel, but never 
understand. What a sick power it is that you are given.” 

The ropes only seemed to tighten as Jessica pulled at 
them, and Jessica felt tears of frustration pricking at her 
eyes. No wonder she doesn't care if | try to escape, she 
thought bitterly. /f / could just see the knots ... She stopped 
moving and took a deep breath, then closed her eyes. Find 
the knot. Ignore the robot. Jessica fumbled with her right 
hand, searching for the end of the knot, bending her wrist 
painfully. At last, she found the end of the rope and grasped 
it: the rope tightened, but she inched her fingers along until 
she came to the base of the knot, then began to carefully 
push the end of the rope up through the final loop. 

“! wanted so desperately to have been the one on that 
stage, but it was always her. All of his love went into her.” 

“You're talking about Afton.” Jessica stopped, and Charlie 
nodded confirmation. “William Afton never made anything 


with love,” Jessica snarled. 

“| should rip you in half.” Charlie’s appearance flashed, 
the animatronic’s face and body seeming to break, then 
reassemble in an instant. For a moment her expression 
wavered, a vulnerability showing on her face, but she 
quickly collected herself. “She was his obsession.” 

The animatronic twisted her hair around her fingers. “He 
worked on her day and night, the clown baby with bright 
orange pigtails. Petite enough to be sweet and 
approachable, but large enough to swallow you whole.” She 
laughed. 

Jessica pulled the rope a last time: She had managed to 
undo the first knot. Breathing heavily with the effort, Jessica 
opened her eyes: The animatronic had not moved from the 
window—she seemed still to be watching with a kind of 
amused interest. Jessica gritted her teeth and closed her 
eyes, and started on the next knot. 

“| wanted to be her,” the girl whispered. “The focus of his 
attention, the center of his world.” 

“You're delusional.” Jessica snickered as she struggled 
with the rope, trying to keep her distracted. “You’re a robot; 
you're not his child.” 

The animatronic pulled a chair away from the wall, and 
sat with a pained expression. “One night | snuck out of bed 
to see her. I’d been told not to a hundred times. | pulled the 
sheet away. She was gleaming bright, beautiful, standing 
over me. She had happy red cheeks and a lovely red dress.” 

Jessica paused in her work, confused. Who is she talking 
about? 

“It’s odd, because | remember looking down at the little 
girl as well. It’s strange seeing through both sets of eyes 
now. But as | said, one is no more than a data tape, a record 


of my first capture, my first kill.” The animatronic’s eyes 
flared bright in the darkness. “The little girl approached me 
and pulled the sheet away. | felt nothing; it’s no more than a 
record of what happened. But there /s feeling, my feeling as 
| pulled the sheet away, and stood in awe before this 
creature my father loved, this daughter he had made for 
himself. The daughter who was better than me, the 
daughter he wished | had been. | wanted to be her, so 
badly.” Charlie’s appearance faded, revealing the painted 
clown, and Jessica sighed as a wave of nausea and dizziness 
passed over her again. “So, | did what | was built to do,” the 
girl said, and stopped talking. The room was silent. 

When the last knot slipped loose and the rope fell to the 
floor, Jessica’s eyes popped open in surprise. She leaned 
forward, moving her numb, tingling arms down to her ankles 
as she watched the girl, who simply continued to observe 
her. Jessica undid the knots that held her ankles quickly— 
they were looser, done carelessly, and she put her feet flat 
on the floor, her stomach fluttering. Time to run. 

Jessica ran for the door, propelling her wobbly knees and 
sore ankles through sheer force of will. There was no sound 
from behind her. She’s going to be right behind me! she 
thought wildly as she reached the door and turned the knob. 
She yanked it open with overflowing relief—and screamed. 

Close enough to touch was a mottled face, swollen and 
misshapen. The skin looked too thin, and the bloodshot 
eyes, staring angrily at her, quivered as if they were about 
to burst. Jessica jerked away, stumbling back into the room. 
Her eyes darted to his neck, where two rusting lengths of 
metal protruded from his skin. He stank of mold: the furry 
suit he wore was covered in it, turning the cloth green, 


though as Jessica took in the whole of him, she knew it had 
once been yellow. 

“Springtrap,” she breathed, her voice shaky, and his lips 
twitched into something that might have been a smile. 
Jessica ran to the chair she’d been tied to, putting it 
between them as if it would do any good, then horribly, 
Springtrap began to laugh. Jessica tensed, grasping the 
chair’s wooden back, ready to defend herself, but Springtrap 
just kept laughing, not moving from the spot where he 
stood. He cackled on and on, rising to an impossible pitch, 
then he broke off abruptly, his eyes snapping to Jessica. He 
shuffled closer, then, inexplicably, he began to caper ina 
grotesque dance as he sang in a thin, unsteady voice. 

Oh, Jessica’s been caught 

Oh, Jessica she fought 

But now she’s going to die! 

Oh my! 

Jessica glanced at the animatronic girl in the corner, who 
looked away as though disgusted. Springtrap danced closer, 
circling Jessica as he repeated the verse, and she hefted the 
chair between them, watching for a chance to strike. Jessica 
tripped over her own feet trying to get out of his way. Even 
for him, this ts insane. He danced closer and away, the 
words he sang degenerating into syllables of nonsense, 
interrupted by maniacal laughter. Jessica held the chair 
steady, ready to swing it. Suddenly, Springtrap froze in 
place. 

Jessica’s arms wavered, and she set the chair down with 
a thud. Springtrap didn’t move, even his face was 
completely motionless. Like someone turned him off. She 
had barely finished the thought when his whole body went 
limp, collapsing on the floor with a clatter. He flickered, then 


Springtrap faded away, leaving in his place a blank, 
segmented doll. Jessica whirled to look at the animatronic 
girl: she was still watching without expression. 

“Enough theatrics.” A rasping male voice came from the 
open door. “Jessica, isn’t it?” The voiced wheezed. She 
squinted, unable to make out anything in the dim light. 

“| know that voice,” she said slowly. There was a whirring 
sound coming from the doorway, and soon Jessica could see 
something roll into the room, an automated wheelchair of 
some sort. He was dressed in what looked like white silk 
pajamas and a black robe of the same cloth, covering him 
from chin to toe, black leather slippers on his feet. Behind 
him, three IV bags hung from a wheeled stand, the tubes 
extending up under the sleeve of his pajama shirt. His head 
was bald, covered in ridged pink scars. Where there were no 
scars, there were strange pallets of plastic, molding, and 
metal, pressed into his head as though fused to it. He 
turned his head slightly and Jessica saw that while one eye 
was perfectly normal, the other was simply missing: the 
gaping socket was dark, and shot through with a thin steel 
rod that glinted in the light. He was painfully thin, the bones 
of his face visible, and as he gave Jessica a small, twisted 
smile, she saw tendons move like snakes beneath the 
surface of his skin. She had to fight to keep from retching. 

“Do you know who | am?” he asked. 

You're William Afton, Jessica thought, but she shook her 
head, and he sighed, a rattling sound. 

“Come here,” he said. 

“I'll stay where | am,” she said tightly. 

“As you like.” He shifted his weight carefully, the 
wheelchair letting out a whir as it moved forward slowly. The 
animatronic girl started toward him and he waved her off, 


but the gesture threw off his balance, and fora moment he 
appeared as though he might fall to the side, but he gripped 
the arm of the chair with a pained expression, righting 
himself. 

“So what was the dance routine for?” Jessica asked 
loudly, and he looked at her as though surprised she was 
still there. Then, he raised his hands to the knot on his robe, 
his fingers struggling clumsily to undo it. 

“| thought you might like to see me as | was. A familiar 
face,” he said, and smirked. He held up a small disc in his 
hand and clicked it on. The blank doll on the floor suddenly 
looked as it had a moment ago, with the bloodied, duplicate 
William Afton stuffed inside the rabbit suit. 

“Time changes all things,” he went on, clicking the disc 
off again. “As does pain. When | called myself Springtrap | 
was ecstatic with power, delirious over my newfound 
strength. But pain changes all things, as does time.” He 
opened his robe to reveal his torso. 

At the center of his chest was a mass of twisted flesh, 
crossed with neat, diagonal lines of black stitching thread; 
rippling out from the wound were the marks of the spring- 
lock suit, some scarred over years before, and some 
scarcely healed, the skin a shiny, angry red. He raised a 
hand to the wad of stitches, careful not to touch it. “Your 
friend inflicted this new wound,” he said mildly, then bent 
his head slightly forward, calling her attention to his neck. 
She took an involuntary step closer, and gasped. 

His skin was gone, she thought at first, the innards of his 
neck laid open to the air. But the blood ... he’d be dead. 
Jessica took a long, slow breath, feeling light-headed as she 
tried to make sense of what she saw. The wound had been 
covered with something else, plastic, maybe: she could see 


where the surrounding skin had fused to it, healing red and 
ugly. Through the clear material, whatever it was, she could 
see his throat—she didn’t know enough about anatomy to 
name the parts, but they were red and blue, blocks of 
muscle and strings of veins or tendons. Wedged in among 
them were things that never belonged inside a human body; 
Small scraps of metal, embedded in the tissue. There were 
too many to count. The man moved, and they glinted in the 
light. Jessica gasped, and he wheezed, clearly struggling to 
breathe with his neck turned the way it was. Something 
caught her eye as he moved, and she leaned in closer: she 
was almost touching him now, and the smell was awful: a 
noxious perfume of disinfectant. She peered through the 
clear shield and saw it: a spring, its coils wrapped tightly 
around what looked like three veins, the sharp ends plunged 
deep into red muscle tissue. 

Jessica stepped back and almost tripped on the fallen 
mannequin that had been Springtrap. She kicked away the 
jumble of limbs, recovering her balance, and looked into the 
man’s mutilated face again. 

“Yeah, | Know you. Didn’t you used to be a mall guard?” 
she said. His fists clenched, and his eyes darkened with fury. 

“Spare me. Dave the guard was a character, one 
concocted on a moment’s notice to play you for a fool, you 
and your friends. It was insulting. It doesn’t take a great 
thespian to pretend to be an idiot night guard, as long as 
you can get around inconspicuously. | have not been 
inconspicuous for some time. It hardly matters now anyway, 
as this is all that’s left of me.” His voice gargled with 
despair. 

“Come sit with me, Jessica.” The animatronic girl dragged 
his IV stand with one hand, helping him back to a corner, 


where more medical devices and a reclining chair awaited. 
Jessica eyed the door, bracing herself to move, when the 
quiet was broken by what sounded like a child’s scream in 
the distance. 

“What was that?” Jessica said. “That sounded like a kid.” 

The man ignored her and settled back into the furnished 
chair. The animatronic girl busied herself with the machines 
around him, attaching electrodes to his bare scalp and 
checking the IV bags. A monitor began to beep at slightly 
irregular intervals, and he waved his hand. “Turn that off. | 
can’t stand the sound of it. Jessica, come closer.” 

Stay alive. Play along, Jessica thought to herself as she 
warily picked up the chair she’d been tied to, carried it over 
to the man, and sat. Jessica trained her eyes on the 
animatronic girl as she strode across the room, gripped a 
handle, and pulled a long table straight out of the wall as if 
they were going to view a body in a morgue. Jessica clasped 
her hand over her mouth as fumes of oil and burning flesh 
washed over her. There was something lying on the table, 
covered with a plastic sheet. 

Jessica leaped up again and backed away. “What is this? 
Who did you murder now?” she demanded. 

“No one new,” William spurted, almost as though he was 
trying to laugh. The plastic crinkled; something was moving 
inside. 

“What have you done?” Jessica gasped. 

The animatronic girl took a cotton ball from a bag 
nearby, wetted it from the bottle in her hand, and wiped it 
thoroughly up and down the metal fingers of one hand, then 
dropped it into a trash can at her feet. She took another 
piece of cotton and repeated the process, continuing over 
the surface of her hands and forearms up to her elbows. 


She’s sterilizing herself. Jessica turned to the man in the 
chair, keeping the girl in her peripheral gaze. Behind him 
the animatronic girl was sterilizing a scalpel, using the same 
care she had taken with her hands. 

“Here | thought you’d cheated death,” Jessica said, 
almost feeling sorry for him. 

“Oh, believe me, | have. You have only seen one fraction 
of what was done to me, the shrapnel that even dozens of 
surgeries—and | have had dozens—could not remove.” He 
Slowly rolled up the sleeve of his pajama shirt, revealing two 
staves of metal embedded in his arm, both dotted with 
ragged pieces of gray rubber. “Parts of that costume have 
become part of me.” The animatronic girl took what looked 
like a pair of scissors out of the drawer and began to swab 
them clean, dabbing gently along every surface. 

“But the fake blood.” Jessica closed her eyes, shaking her 
head. Charlie said that Clay found fake blood at Freddy’s. 
“There was fake blood; you faked your death.” 

Afton coughed, and his eyes widened. “I assure you, | 
didn’t fake anything. If your police friend found fake blood 
...” He took a steadying breath. “It wasn’t mine. | bleed, just 
like everyone else.” He finished, and smiled, giving Jessica a 
moment to think before continuing. 

“| gave you a monster.” He gestured toward the 
collapsed doll that had been Springtrap. “But | assure you, 
I’m very, miserably, human.” He paused again, a surge of 
anger crossing his face. 

“My scalp was torn from my head when | escaped that 
costume, all but this piece here.” He touched the small 
patch where hair still grew. “Scraps of metal are interwoven 
through every part of my body that has not been replaced 


with artificial tissue. Every movement causes me 
unimaginable pain. Not moving is even worse.” 

“I’m not going to feel sorry for you,” Jessica said 
suddenly, braver than she felt. Afton took a breath and 
stared at her blankly. 

“Do you believe that your pity will make any difference 
concerning what | do to you?” he asked with a steady tone. 
He tilted his head, leaning back as if taking a moment to 
relish the words, then his face lost the glint of cunning. “1 
am simply telling you, so that you can help with what comes 
next,” he said tiredly. Jessica stood. 

“You want me to be impressed by how much you've 
survived, and how much pain you’re in. | don’t care about 
you.” She approached William’s chair, then crossed her 
arms, glaring down at him from above. She glanced at the 
animatronic girl, who seemed poised to intervene, a half- 
swabbed scalpel in her hand, but Afton gave a subtle shake 
of his hand toward her, waving her off, seeming to enjoy the 
exchange. Jessica bent closer. 

“William Afton,” she said. “There is nothing in this world 
that | care less about than your pain.” 

Another child’s scream came from somewhere nearby, 
and Jessica straightened. 

“That was a little kid,” Jessica said, a heady rush of 
adrenaline surging through her. She felt suddenly forceful, 
like she had some control of the situation. “You’re the one 
who’s been kidnapping those kids, aren’t you?” she 
demanded, and Afton smiled weakly. 

“I’m afraid those days are gone for me.” He laughed, and 
looked fondly at the animatronic girl, who looked up at 
Jessica and smiled delicately. The girl straightened her 
posture and continued to stare; Jessica took a step back. All 


at once, the girl’s stomach split open at the middle and out 
shot an enormous mass of wires and prongs. It reached its 
full extension and snapped open and shut with a steely 
clank. Jessica screamed, jumping back. The thing fell to the 
ground, then slowly recoiled back into the girl’s stomach, 
which closed seamlessly. She smiled at Jessica, running her 
finger up and down the now-invisible line of the opening. 
Jessica averted her eyes. 

“Baby, that’s enough,” Afton whispered. Jessica came to 
attention, her panic suddenly washed over with confusion. 
She looked from the girl to Afton, and back again. 

“Circus Baby,” she said, suddenly recalling the sign 
outside the restaurant. The animatronic girl smiled wider, 
her face threatening to split in half. “You’re not as cute as 
you are on the sign,” Jessica said bitingly, and the girl 
stopped smiling instantly, turning her body toward Jessica 
like she was aiming a weapon. A high-pitched ringing rose 
all around them, and Jessica edged backward. That’s her 
chip, Jessica thought, bracing as if for impact. The 
animatronic girl held out her arms as though in a gesture of 
welcome. 

Thin, sharp spines like porcupine’s needles began to 
grow from her metal skin, each capped with a red knob like 
a pinhead, spaced a few inches apart, and extending from 
her face, her body, and her arms and legs. They grew slowly 
outward, lining up perfectly with one another to create a 
false contour all around her body. The girl looked 
expectantly at Jessica. 

“Give it a minute,” the girl said. “Let your eyes adjust.” 
The humming sound grew louder, rising higher in pitch 
until it became painful to hear. Jessica covered her ears, but 
it did nothing to dampen the sound. Suddenly, a new image 


Snapped into place: where the smooth, slim redheaded 
animatronic had been was a gigantic, cartoonish child, her 
green eyes too large for her face, and her nose and cheeks 
painted a garish pink; she was a perfect image of the girl on 
the neon sign. Before Jessica could react, the childish image 
vanished, the needlelike extensions snapping back into the 
girl’s body with a metallic snap. The humming stopped. The 
animatronic girl had returned to her former appearance. 
William Afton watched her with a gleam of pride. 

Jessica turned again to the sleek, shiny girl standing at 
the man’s side. “How did you create her?” Jessica asked, her 
eyes filled with curiosity for a moment before snapping 
herself back to the immediate danger surrounding her. 

“Ah. A woman with a mind for science. You can’t help but 
to admire what I’ve done.” He braced himself on one arm of 
the chair, hoisting himself up to sit straighter. “Although ...” 
He looked up at the gleaming girl for a moment, then turned 
away. “I can’t take complete credit for this, unfortunately.” 
He reclined his head again and let out a sigh. “Sometimes 
great things come at a great cost.” 

Jessica waited for him to go on, confused, then looked at 
the animatronic girl, recalling all that she’d said minutes 
before. 

“Lam a brilliant man, make no mistake. But what you see 
before you is a combination of all sorts of machinations and 
magic. My only real accomplishment was making something 
that could walk.” He reached out and tapped the leg of the 
animatronic standing at his side; she did not react. “No 
small accomplishment. Although it’s not happening as 
fluidly as you think. A lot of what you see is just in your 
head.” He wheezed a laugh, then stopped himself, ending 
with a pained cough before going on. “That was Henry’s 


idea not to try to reinvent the wheel. Why try to create the 
illusion of life, when your mind can do it for us?” 

“She’s more than an illusion, though,” Jessica said 
plainly. 

“Quite right,” Afton answered thoughtfully. “Quite right. 
But that’s why we're here—to discover the secret of that 
last ingredient, what you might call the spark of life.” 

“Is that why I’m here, too?” Jessica clenched her jaw. 

“| believe you came here of your own free will, didn’t 
you?” Afton said mildly. 

“I didn’t tie myself up.” 

“But | certainly didn’t put you in the trunk of that car,” he 
answered. 

“We would rather have had your friend Charlie,” he 
continued. “But we can find a use for you.” He closed his 
eyes for a long moment, then opened them, meeting 
Jessica’s eyes. “I have faced my own mortality, Jessica. | 
knew | was dying and through every broken fragment of my 
body, | was profoundly, immeasurably afraid. | fear it more 
than | fear life like this, even when every waking instant is 
pain, and sleep is possible only when induced by enough 
medication to kill most people.” 

“Everyone is afraid to die,” Jessica said. “And you should 
be more afraid than anyone else, because if there’s a hell, 
there’s a hole at the bottom of it reserved for you.” 

Afton nodded with a moment of honest resignation. “In 
time, I’m sure that’s where | will find myself. But the devil 
has knocked on my door before, and I’ve turned him away.” 
He smiled. 

“So, what? You want to live forever?” 

William Afton smiled sadly and held out his hand to the 
animatronic girl; she went to him and put a protective hand 


on his shoulder. “Certainly not like this,” he said. Jessica 
glanced at the robot girl, then back to the man in front of 
her, his body already riddled with mechanical parts. 

“So, what, you’re making yourself into a robot?” She 
laughed nervously, then stopped at his grave expression. “| 
didn’t realize that you fancied yourself a mad scientist.” 

“No, that’s science fiction,” he said, unamused. 

The plastic tarp moved again, and began to slide off the 
table, but stopped, not revealing what lay underneath. 

“Everyone dies.” Jessica blinked; the adrenaline was 
wearing off, and she was beginning to feel exhausted. Afton 
reached up and touched the mechanical girl’s cheek, then 
turned his attention back to Jessica. 

“The most terrible accidents sometimes bear the most 
beautiful fruits,” he said, as if to himself. “Re-creating the 
accident—that is the duty and the honor of science. To 
replicate the experiment, and obtain the same result. | give 
my life to this experiment, piece by piece.” He nodded at 
the girl, and she approached Jessica with deliberate steps. 
Jessica backed away, fear surging again. 

“What are you going to do to me?” She could hear the 
urgency in her own voice. 

“Please, enough. As a woman of science, at least try to 
appreciate what I’ve done,” Afton said. 

“I study archaeology,” she said in a flat tone. He didn’t 
respond; the girl stepped closer, giving her an unreadable 
stare. 

The plastic tarp slid from the table, and Jessica startled 
and stared at what was underneath, but her terror turned to 
confusion in an instant. There wasn’t a body, not human or 
machine. Instead there was a melted scrapheap, whose 
extensions could be interpreted as arms and legs, but with 


no defined mechanism of movement. There were no joints, 
no muscles, no skin or coverings, just masses of undefined 
tangles and cords, melted into one another and fused 
together. Most of it seemed fused to the table, burned and 
blackened at the edges where it touched the table itself, 
melting into it and seemingly inseparable from it. 

“| don’t understand.” Jessica’s mouth hung open, and she 
sat down again without thinking. 

“Good girl.” Afton smiled thinly. Jessica clenched her jaw. 
The animatronic girl went back to the table and took up the 
cotton balls and rubbing alcohol. She started with her 
fingers again, methodically wiping down each one. “Get on 
with it,” Afton said impatiently. The girl did not break her 
deliberate pace. 

“| touched you; | have to start over,” she said. 

“Nonsense, just do it. I’ve survived worse than this.” 

“The risk of infection ...” she said calmly. 

“Elizabeth!” he snapped. “Do as | say.” The animatronic 
girl stopped moving at once, looking startled, and for a 
moment almost seemed to tremble. Jessica held her breath, 
wondering if anyone knew, or cared, that she had just heard 
the exchange. The girl immediately regained her 
composure, her eyes relaxing, then opened the drawer and 
took out a pair of rubber gloves, which she fitted easily over 
her metal hands. He settled back, and the girl came to him 
and bent over to press a button on the side of his chair. The 
chair made a pneumatic hiss and reclined, flattening out like 
a bed, and the girl placed her foot on a lever at the chair’s 
base. She stepped on it, and the chair jerked upward. Afton 
made a pained grunt, and Jessica winced reflexively. The girl 
hit the lever again, yanking the chair up another inch, then 
stopped and flipped the monitor back on. It began to beep 


again at slightly irregular intervals, and she levered the 
chair up rapidly, jolting Afton’s frail body as it rose. The girl 
darted her eyes from the monitor to Afton and back again, 
attentive to his vital signs. When the chair reached waist- 
height, she stepped back, apparently satisfied. Afton let out 
a rattling breath, then lifted his hand an inch to point at 
Jessica. 

“Come closer,” he said. She took a small step, and he 
curled his lips in a smile or a sneer. “I want you to watch 
what happens next,” he said. 

“What's going to happen next?” Jessica asked, hearing 
her own voice shake. 

“How did the creatures at Freddy’s move, of their own 
will, with no outside force controlling them?” he asked 
mildly. He tilted his head, waiting. 

“The children were still inside. Their souls were inside 
those creatures,” she said, the words brittle. She fe/t brittle, 
like if anything touched her now, she might easily break 
apart. 

Afton sneered again. 

“Oh, Jessica, come now. What else?” She closed her eyes. 
What is he talking about? “What else was inside them, to 
bind their spirits so inseparably to the bear, to the rabbit, to 
the fox? How did they die, Jessica?” 

Jessica gasped, covering her mouth with both hands, as if 
she could stop herself from knowing, as long as she did not 
speak. “How, Jessica?” Afton demanded, and she lowered 
her hands, trying to steady her breath. 

“You killed them,” she said, and he made an impatient 
sound. She met his eyes again, not flinching from the empty 
socket. “They died in the suits,” she said hoarsely. “Their 
bodies were bound inside, along with their souls.” 


He nodded. “The spirit follows the flesh, it would seem, 
and also the pain. If | wish to become my own immortal 
creation, my body must lead my spirit to its eternal home. 
Since | am still ... experimenting ... | move my flesh piece by 
piece.” He looked thoughtfully over at the creature on the 
table. “More and more,” he murmured, almost to himself, “it 
is a test of the strength of my own will. How much of myself 
can | carve away, and still remain in control?” 

“Carve away?” Jessica repeated faintly, and he snapped 
his attention back to her. 

“Yes. | will even allow you to watch,” he said with a 
smirk. 

“No, thanks,” she said, shrinking back, and he wheezed a 
laugh. 

“You will watch,” he said, then gestured to the 
animatronic girl. “Keep an eye on her,” Afton said. 

“| have many eyes on her.” The girl went to a cabinet 
and took out another IV bag: before she closed the door, 
Jessica caught a glimpse of more like it, and a shelf of what 
looked like vacuum-sealed cuts of meat. Her stomach 
flipped, and she swallowed hard. 

Jessica started to squirm in her seat; there was a hissing 
sound coming from somewhere, and a smell of burning oil 
began to fill the room. The table where the mass of metal 
rested was beginning to glow orange at its center, and the 
mass on the table seemed to move slightly, although only 
out of the corner of Jessica’s eye. Jessica snapped back to 
attention and turned toward Afton. 

He appeared to be asleep: his chest rose and fell with 
slow breaths, and his eyes were closed; his eyelid draped 
loosely over the steel rod in the center of his missing eye, 
the thin skin hanging into the empty socket. The girl 


nodded, and moved to the table. Jessica swallowed, the 
rotten smell swelling around her. She had ceased to notice 
it, her nose tuning it out, but now it was everywhere, 
thickening the air with its miasma. An operating theater ... 
he’s harvesting the kids for organs, transplanting them into 
himself? 

Jessica looked around the room, calculating—the scalpels 
were too far away to grab, and they wouldn’t even scratch 
the animatronic girl’s paint. If she ran, she would be dead 
before she was halfway to the door. Jessica forced herself to 
watch. 

The animatronic girl went to William Afton’s side, then 
checked the monitor again with care. She unbuttoned his 
pajama top and splayed it open, revealing his chest, and the 
mass of scars that had covered it since before he went by 
the name “Dave.” The girl tugged the waist of his pants an 
inch lower, so that his torso was fully exposed, then nodded, 
took off her gloves, and replaced them with new ones. Then 
she took up one of the scalpels. Jessica looked away. 

“You have to watch,” the girl said, her voice chilling, a 
human voice stripped of human intonation. Jessica jerked 
her head up; the animatronic’s eyes were on her. “He wants 
to see you watch,” she repeated, the pleasant veneer 
cloaking her voice once more. Jessica gulped, and nodded, 
fixing her eyes on the scene before her. “I don’t think you 
understand,” the girl said. “Go wash your hands.” 

Shakily, Jessica got to her feet and went to the sink, 
feeling as if she might pass out at any moment. She turned 
the sink on and watched the water spiral down the drain, 
the shiny stainless steel gleaming through in the bright 
light. 


“Wash your hands.” Jessica obeyed, pushing up her 
Sleeves above her elbows and washing her hands all the 
way up the forearms, foaming up the soap over and over as 
she had seen doctors do on TV. She rinsed them finally and 
turned to the animatronic girl. 

“What am | doing?” she asked. The girl ripped open a 
plastic package and took out a towel. She held it out to 
Jessica. 

“You're going to help.” 

Jessica took the towel and dried her hands, then put on 
gloves from the box the animatronic girl directed her to. 
“You know this thing isn’t sterile, right?” she muttered, 
glancing at the mass on the table. 

“Wait.” Jessica gasped and took a step toward the table. 
From this angle, she could see more of its form. It was a 
melted mess, but she could recognize certain elements in 
the mass of fused scrap on the table. A /eg. A finger. An... 
eye socket. 

“I—I recognize these parts,” Jessica said, but there was 
no answer. “These look like ... endoskeletons, from Freddy’s, 
the original Freddy’s.” Jessica began calculating in her head, 
measuring to herself how much this mass must weigh, and 
its size relative to the size of the endoskeletons she 
remembered. Before she could think further, the creature on 
the table attempted to lift its leg, the makeshift knee 
bending partially. There was no mechanical device that she 
could make out—it seemed to be moving of its own will. 
After a second, it dropped back to the table. 

“Where did you find these?” Jessica stepped back. 
“Where did you find these? What did you do? Why did you 
... melt them all together?” 


“Hand me the scalpel,” the girl said patiently. The 
Surgical implements were laid out in a neat row on the 
rolling table, on a piece of paper, along with a set of curved 
needles, already threaded, and a small, kitchen-size 
propylene torch. The creature on the table tried again to lift 
its leg, and suddenly Jessica understood how it was able to 
move. 

“They’re still in there!” Jessica screamed. “The children— 
Michael!” The creature writhed pitifully, as if responding to 
her voice, and Jessica’s heart wrenched. They’re in there, 
and they’re in pain. 

“Il guess | should have kidnapped Marla if | wanted a 
nurse,” the girl said sardonically. “I told you, he wants you 
to watch. Look over here.” Jessica obeyed, feeling her head 
go light as the girl pressed the scalpel into Afton’s skin. 
Don’t pass out. She drew the blade across his lower 
abdomen with steady, practiced hands, making a six-inch 
incision. She held out the scalpel, and Jessica stared fora 
moment before realizing she was supposed to take it. “He 
wants you to watch; it’s the only reason you’re alive. If you 
don’t watch, then there is no reason for you to be here. Do 
you understand?” Jessica steadied herself. Breathe. Don’t 
faint. Think about something else. 

John, Charlie—no, I'll start crying. Something else, 
something else ... 

Shoes. Black boots, knee high. The kind that look like 
riding boots. Italian leather. Jessica took the scalpel and set 
it down where it had been, and the blood dripped onto the 
paper, seeping into the fibers. Jessica took another deep 
breath. 

The animatronic girl had one of her hands inside the 
incision, and was pulling it back, peering into the wound she 


had just made. “Scalpel,” she said again, and Jessica picked 
up a new one and handed it to her. “Watch,” the girl 
warned, and Jessica watched as she reached into the 
incision and cut something inside. Jessica flinched. Shoes. 
Maroon clogs. Chunky heel, three inches. Patchwork 
stitching. The girl held out the scalpel, her hand still inside 
Afton’s body. “Take it; give me clamps.” Jessica took the 
scalpel and replaced it. 

“Clamps?” she asked, starting to panic as she searched 
among the instruments. 

“They look like scissors, with teeth instead of blades. 
Open them and hand them to me, and do it fast.” 

Shoes. Jelly sandals, purple, sparkly. Jessica grabbed the 
clamps and tried to open them, but they were stuck 
together, hooked by an odd clasp at the top. 

“Hurry up, do you want him to die?” 

Yes, | do! Jessica wanted to shout, but held her tongue. 
She pinched the scissor handles together, and they came 
free. She handed them to the girl, relieved, and watched as 
she stuck the pointed end into the opening and pinched 
whatever she had been holding, clamping it shut. She took 
her hand slowly out of the wound and looked at Jessica. 

“You have to be faster. Scalpel, then I'll need clamps 
right away.” 

Jessica nodded. 

Shoes. Green suede kitten heels with a rhinestone strap 
at the ankle. She handed the girl the scalpel, then wrestled 
the clamps open as fast as she could, and was holding them 
out by the time the bloody blade was returned to her. She 
watched dizzily as the animatronic girl made another cut, 
severing something she could not see, and using the last set 
of clamps to hold it shut. 


The table behind them began to hiss more loudly, and 
the orange glow intensified. Jessica took a step sideways to 
get away from the heat. The glow spread to the creature on 
the table, and parts of it seemed to turn from side to side. 

“Hold out your hands,” the girl said. 

Platform sneakers. Denim. Hideous. Jessica held out her 
hands for the clamps, but the girl left them in place. Instead, 
She slid both hands into Afton’s open body and lifted out a 
bloody object. His kidney, that’s his kidney. Black leather 
combat boots. Black leather combat boots. Charlie’s black 
leather combat boots. The animatronic girl held the kidney 
up in the air for a moment, and blood dripped from it onto 
her face. Charlie’s boots. Charlie. The girl turned to Jessica, 
and she shrank back. 

“Hold out your hands,” the girl repeated with cold 
insistence, and Jessica obeyed, fighting not to retch as the 
warm organ was placed gently in her hands. /t’s meat; it’s 
not part of a person; just think of it as meat. Platform 
sneakers. Stiletto boots. Penny loafers. She watched in a 
daze as the girl took a curved needle and black thread and 
began to sew William Afton back together, starting with his 
innards, and ending with the first incision, making a row of 
Xs across the left half of his body. At last she finished, 
Snipping the last thread off with practiced ease. 

“What's next?” Jessica asked, her voice sounding faint 
against the rushing in her ears. Yellow sneakers with a blue 
streak on the side. Those brown pumps Mom got me. Oh, 
Mom— 

“The next part is easy,” the girl said, pulling the gloves 
off and picking the kidney up again with her hand and 
approaching the table where the mass lay. 

“What are you going to do?” Jessica quivered. 


“What did you think all of this was for?” the girl said 
softly. “He told you: piece by piece.” 

Jessica looked down at the creature on the table, glowing 
orange at its core, and dripping fluid from its various parts, 
the drops landing with a hiss on the hot surface. 

“This is a transplant,” she said. 

The mass of melted parts fora moment looked human, 
its demeanor suddenly childlike as it squirmed, and its head 
turned to face Jessica. For just a moment, Jessica thought 
she could make out eyes looking back at her. Suddenly, the 
silence was broken as the animatronic girl clenched her fist 
around the kidney and slammed it against the creature’s 
chest, pressing so hard that the metal underneath sank 
inward, embedding the kidney deep inside where it gurgled 
and hissed. More fluid seeped out the sides of the creature 
and burned on the table, as the girl wrenched it back and 
forth inside. 

She pulled her hand from the cavity she had created, her 
hand charred black, and rested it at her side, extending and 
retracting her fingers as though making sure they still 
worked. 

“Now, we are done,” she said. She brushed past Jessica 
and went to the cabinet, and emerged with a long needle. 
She strode purposefully to William Afton’s side, stopped with 
her fist raised over her head, then brought the needle down, 
plunging it into his chest. 

A second passed, then he heaved an enormous breath 
and groaned. The girl pulled the needle from his chest and 
set it gently on the table beside him. William Afton opened 
his eyes, and his single eyeball moved back and forth 
between Jessica and the animatronic girl. 

“Is it done?” he asked. 


Jessica screamed. The intensity of it roused her from her 
daze and she screamed again, letting the sound drown out 
everything else. Her throat went raw, but she screamed 
again, clinging to the roar of her own voice; for an instant, 
She felt like if she kept screaming nothing worse could 
happen. 

The air around the girl shimmered, and Jessica’s vision 
blurred in front of her: something was moving. In a moment, 
her eyes cleared, and Charlie was standing in front of her. 

“Jessica, don’t worry! You can trust me,” Charlie said 
cheerfully. 





A hand was stroking her hair. The sun was going down over 
a field of grain. A cluster of birds were fluttering overhead, 
their calls echoing out over the landscape. “I’m so happy to 
be here with you,” a kind voice said. She looked up and 
nestled against him; her father smiled down at her, but 
there were tears in his eyes. Don’t cry, Daddy, she wanted 
to say, but when she tried to speak, the words did not come. 
She reached up to touch his face, but her hand passed 
through empty air: he was gone, and she was alone in the 
grass. Overhead the birds began to wail, and their calls 
sounded like human voices, breaking with despair. “Daddy!” 
Charlie screamed, but there was no answer, only the birds’ 
lamentation as the sun vanished beyond the horizon. 

It was dark, and he had not come back; all the birds were 
gone but one, and that one sounded more human with 


every cry. Charlie stood unsteadily; by some trick of time 
she was no longer a child, but a teenage girl, and the fields 
around her had turned to rubble; she stood in the midst of a 
ruined place, but there was a single wall standing in front of 
her, and a door at the center of it. The birds were silent, but 
someone was crying on the other side of the door, crying 
alone in a small, cramped space. She ran to it, banging her 
fists on the metal surface. “Let me in!” she cried. “Let me 
in! | have to get inside!” 

| have to get inside! Charlie sat bolt upright with a 
ragged gasp, inhaling like she’d just escaped from drowning. 
The doors—the closet. She threw off the gray wool blanket 
and sheets, tangling herself in the process before she 
managed to get free. She was so hot she could barely stand 
it, and the wool had been scratching where it touched her 
chin. She felt strange, more alert: the world was in sharp 
focus, and it was jarring, as if she had been drifting in some 
kind of shadowy, half-conscious state for days. Everything 
hurts, she’d managed to whisper to John, but it had been 
somehow detached from her, there was some buffer 
between her body and her mind. Now, her mind clear, the 
buffer was gone, and she ached all over, a dull, constant 
pain that seemed to be everywhere at once. She leaned 
back against the wall. She had not woken to sleepy 
disorientation—she knew exactly where she was. She was in 
John’s apartment, behind the couch. She was behind the 
couch, because ... 

“Someone is impersonating me,” she said uncertainly, 
and the sound of her own voice was Startling in the empty 
room. 

She got to her knees, not quite trusting her legs, then 
steadied herself on the back of the couch, getting to her 


feet with effort. She straightened, and was instantly dizzy, 
her head swimming as her knees threatened to buckle 
under her. Charlie gripped the back of the couch 
determinedly, picking a point on the wall and staring at it, 
willing the room to stop spinning. 

After a moment, it did, and Charlie realized the wall she 
was Staring at was a door. Doors. The thought made her 
light-headed again, but she kept a firm hand on the couch 
and made her way around to the front, then sat down on it 
carefully. She glanced around the room—so far all she had 
seen was the corner behind the sofa. The shades were 
pulled down, and she could see that the front door was 
bolted. Charlie lost interest in the rest of it, her eyes drawn 
back to the other door. It was scarcely ajar, the room behind 
it dark, and Charlie shivered, echoes of her dream 
reverberating in her head. Doors. Someone was on the other 
side, behind the door, somewhere small and dark; | was 
drawing them, doors; | had to find the door. Then... She 
closed her eyes, remembering. They were running, 
desperate to get away as the building thundered around 
them, already falling to pieces, when she saw the door. The 
door called to me; it was hidden in the wall, but | went to it, 
| knew exactly where it was. As | walked toward It, it was like 
| was on both sides—walking to it, and trapped behind it. 
Separated from myself. When | touched it, | could feel the 
beating of your heart, and then... Charlie’s eyes snapped 
open. “John pulled me away,” she said, the memory 
solidifying as she let herself dwell on it. “I didn’t want to go 
because ...” She heard it, suddenly: the hiss and the cracks 
appearing in the wall. “... because the door had started to 
open.” 


Charlie stood, her eyes glued to the door in John’s living 
room. She approached it as if propelled by the same 
instinctive force, her heart picking up its pace. “It’s just the 
bedroom, right?” she murmured, but still she edged toward 
it slowly. She stopped in front of the door and reached out 
tentatively, vaguely surprised when her fingers touched real 
wood. She pushed it gently and it swung open easily, 
revealing a girl identical to Charlie. 

A mirror. 

She looked the same. Her face was pale and strained, but 
it was her face, and she smiled instinctively. In the haze of 
the last few ... days? Weeks? She had been utterly 
disoriented, fading in and out of consciousness, pain finding 
her even in dreams. Charlie had not felt like herself, but 
there she was. She reached out to touch the mirror girl’s 
hand. “You, are you,” she said quietly. 

Behind her came the unmistakable sound of a lock being 
turned, and she whirled around in sudden panic, losing her 
balance and catching herself on John’s dresser. The front 
door opened and she shrank back, kneeling to let the 
dresser shield her. A clamor of voices burst in, all talking at 
once—there were too many to make out the words, until a 
familiar voice called, “Charlie?” 

Charlie didn’t move, waiting to be sure. Footsteps came 
to the doorway of the bedroom, then the voice again: 
“Charlie?” 

“Marla!” Charlie answered. “I’m here.” She started to get 
up, but her legs would not take her weight. “I can’t—” she 
started, tears of frustration pricking her eyes as Marla 
hurried over. 

“It’s okay,” Marla said hurriedly. “It’s okay, I'll help. It’s 
amazing you made it this far!” Charlie looked at her flatly, 


and Marla laughed. “I’m sorry,” she said. “It’s just—glaring 
at me like that you’re so...” 

“What?” 

“Charlie.” 

“Who else am | supposed to be?” Charlie smiled as Marla 
took hold of her wrist with medical authority and began to 
silently count. She looked past Marla to Carlton, who came 
over quickly. John was standing in the door, but he made no 
move to join them, not meeting Charlie’s eyes. 

“| didn’t want to crowd you,” Carlton said, sitting down 
beside her and crossing his legs. “Charlie, l’m—” He broke 
off and swallowed, looking away. “I’m really glad to see 
you,” he said to the floor. 

“I’m glad to see you, too,” Charlie said. She looked back 
to Marla, who nodded briskly. 

“Your pulse is a little slow,” she said. “I want to check it 
again in a few minutes. | want you to drink some water.” 
Charlie nodded. 

“Okay,” she said bemusedly. 

“Let’s get her onto the bed,” Marla said to Carlton, who 
nodded and, before Charlie could protest, scooped her up 
into his arms. Charlie glanced around for John, but he had 
disappeared. 

Marla pulled the blankets back. Charlie felt the pull of 
Sleep, like something standing behind her, gently tugging. 
She blinked rapidly, trying to rouse herself as Carlton set 
her down. Marla started to pull the blankets over her, and 
Charlie waved her hands, ineffectually trying to push them 
away. 

“I’m too hot,” she said, and Marla stopped. 

“Okay,” she said. “They’re here if you need them.” 
Charlie nodded. The tugging was growing stronger: if she 


just closed her eyes, she would slip back into the dark. 
Marla and Carlton were talking to each other, but it was 
getting harder to keep track of what they were saying. 

A loud bang rattled the small apartment, and Charlie 
jolted awake, her heart thudding alarmingly. Almost 
instantly, Marla’s hand was on her shoulder. “It’s just John,” 
she said. 

“Il think my heart rate is back up,” Charlie said, 
attempting to joke, but Marla turned on her with appraising 
eyes, grabbed her wrist, and started to count again. “Marla, 
I’m fine,” Charlie said, halfheartedly pulling away. Marla held 
on for another few seconds, then released her. 

In the living room, John set something down on the floor 
with force. Carlton gave Charlie a concerned glance, then 
helped her off the bed, giving her an arm to lean on as they 
went out into the living room to join John. For a moment, the 
object was obscured, then they all moved aside so she could 
see the child-size doll. Charlie sat down on the floor, a little 
apart from the others. 

“Ella,” she whispered. Some tight, painful knot inside her 
chest began to loosen, and she felt herself smile. “John, how 
did you find her?” she asked. John knelt down behind the 
doll and looked up at her grimly, and her smile faded. 
“What's wrong?” she asked. He didn’t answer her. 

“Everyone, keep your eyes on the doll,” he said instead, 
and took something out of his pocket. He flicked his thumb 
against the object, a tiny motion, and the air around Ella 
shimmered for a moment, blurring her. Charlie rubbed her 
eyes and heard Marla gasp. Ella was gone: standing where 
she had been was a little girl about three years old, dressed 
in Ella’s clothes. The knot in Charlie’s chest started to 
tighten again. 


“What is this, John?” Marla asked sharply. John flicked his 
thumb again, and the shimmer passed over the girl, then 
she was a doll again, her vacant eyes staring placidly into 
eternity. Charlie darted her eyes from one to the next: Marla 
looked scared, but Carlton was fascinated. John, for some 
reason, seemed angry. Charlie shifted uneasily. John 
manipulated the object in his hand again, and the little girl 
appeared once more. Carlton crouched down to look at her, 
and Marla bent down to see, keeping her distance. 

John stood, leaving them to stare at Ella, and knelt 
beside Charlie, giving her the same dark look he’d had since 
he brought in the doll. “What is this?” he asked harshly, and 
Charlie stared at him, hurt. John looked away with a pained 
expression, his face flushed. When he looked back at 
Charlie, the anger in his face had faded, but was not gone. 
“| need to Know what this is.” 

“I! don’t know,” she said. John nodded, and sat on the 
floor with her, carefully leaving a wide space between them. 
He opened his hand: in it was a small, flat disc. Charlie 
didn’t move to touch it—there was something odd in his 
manner, something untrusting she had never seen in him 
before. 

“Did you know?” 

“No.” Charlie tilted her head, staring at the motionless 
little girl. 

“It’s the same as Afton’s creatures, though, isn’t it?” John 
said. “Pattern projection, bombarding the mind; 
overwhelming the senses—” 

“This one is different, though,” Charlie cut in. She 
shivered, though she wasn’t cold, suddenly unable to shake 
the memory of the twisted bear, his face stripped to the 
metal staves, the illusion sparking on and off as he loomed 


over them. “Can | see it?” she said, forcing herself back to 
the present. John held out the disc, and she took it carefully, 
watching him warily. He was giving off the sense of a 
brewing storm, and she was afraid of setting it off. Charlie 
held the disc up to the light, turning it back and forth, then 
handed it back. 

“That’s it?” John’s eyes widened. 

“What do you want me to say?” she cried. 

“| mean, you can’t tell me anything about it?” 

“The others all had that inscription: Afton Robotics. This 
one doesn’t. But I’d bet you noticed that.” 

“Actually, | didn’t.” John looked at her thoughtfully, then 
back down at the disc. He flipped the switch, and Marla 
yelped in surprise. “Sorry! It’s a bit jarring if you aren’t 
expecting it,” he said, turning back to Charlie with a grin. 
She smiled, and as he met her eyes, his smile faltered, 
something troubling passing over his face. Before she could 
speak, it was gone. He grinned widely and winked at her, 
then flipped the switch—Marla cried out again, and Carlton 
laughed. 

“Stop doing that!” Marla shouted from several feet away. 

John ignored her, and leaned in closer to Charlie, 
hesitantly, like he thought she might run away. She turned 
to face him, a wave of nervousness washing over her. She 
ducked her head, letting her hair fall over her face, and he 
reached out and touched it gently, brushing a strand out of 
her eyes. He gave her a small smile and flipped the switch 
once, then again. 

“That’s enough,” Marla called. “This is too weird for me.” 

John didn’t seem to hear her; he was looking at Charlie 
with a new troubled expression. 

“What is it?” she asked quietly. 


“Nothing,” he said. He touched her hair again, this time 
brushing it back from her face and tucking it behind her ear. 
“Hey,” he said abruptly, changing his tone. “Do you 
remember your experiment from last year?” She nodded 
eagerly, then stopped, freshly aware of how long she had 
been away. 

“My faces. But they must be gone, everything must be 
gone.” She looked at John with anxious eyes, but he smiled. 

“Nothing’s gone,” he said, and her heart lifted; she felt 
as if he had just given her a gift. “Jessica packed up all your 
stuff; she’s got it in her apartment.” 

“Oh,” Charlie said, darting her eyes around the room. 
“Jessica? Where is she?” 

“Charlie,” John said patiently, and she tried to focus on 
him; she could feel her attention waning, as if her mind 
were spreading thin, floating out like clouds. “The faces,” 
John went on. “There was an earpiece so they could 
recognize you, right?” 

She nodded. 

“Could you make it work the other way?” 

Charlie thought for a moment then met his eyes again. 
“You mean, make it so that the animatronics can’t see you?” 
She frowned, her focus returning as she concentrated on the 
problem. “The earpieces emit a frequency that alerts the 
animatronics to you, it makes you visible. If you inverted 
that frequency ...” She paused again. “I don’t know if it 
would work, John. It might.” 

“It could make us invisible to them?” 

“Maybe, but that’s a big leap.” 

“How would | do it? Invert the frequency?” 

Charlie shrugged. “Just switch the wires, and ...” 


“Charlie, what part of ‘stay in bed’ wasn’t clear?” Marla 
asked good-naturedly, coming over to them. John stood, his 
mouth hanging open as though Marla had interrupted 
Charlie’s answer, but she didn’t seem poised to add more. 

“Sorry,” he said hastily. 

“Be careful,” Charlie said. She was beginning to feel 
light-headed again, and when Marla reached out to help her 
back to the bedroom, she did not protest. 

John paused in the door, watching as Charlie curled up on 
her side, her eyes already closed. Marla raised her 
eyebrows, and he left, shutting the door halfway. In the 
living room, Carlton was kneeling beside Ella—now in doll 
form again—and looking intently into her ear. 

“Uh, Carlton?” John said dubiously, and Carlton sat back 
on his heels. 

“Amazing,” he said. “She looked human, like actually, for 
real, a human child.” 

“Yeah, | think that was the idea. Can we talk outside?” 
John asked brusquely, and Carlton looked at him in surprise. 

“Sure,” Carlton said with some concern in his voice. 

“Come on.” John headed for the door, and Carlton hurried 
after him. Once they were outside, John looked at Carlton for 
a moment, thinking. 

“What's the idea?” Carlton asked with a hint of suspicion. 

“Let me try to get this straight in my own head first,” 
John said. “Last year, when she was still in school, Charlie 
had this experiment she was doing, something about 
teaching robots language.” 


“Oh yeah!” Carlton nodded enthusiastically. “She told me 
about it. Natural language programming. They listen to 
people talking around them, and to them, and they learn to 
talk, too. Didn’t sound like it worked very well, though.” 

“Well, whatever. She had these earpieces—like, the 
robots would only talk to each other—they only recognized 
each other. You with me so far?” 

“Um, | think?” 

“Well, if you, Carlton, wanted to be /non the 
conversation, you would need to wear a special earpiece. 
The earpieces would make them recognize you. Otherwise, 
you were just part of the background, like they couldn’t see 
you.” 

“Okay?” Carlton gave him a puzzled look, and John rolled 
his eyes. 

“Wearing the earpieces included you in their 
conversation. It made you one of them, from their 
perspective.” 

“Hate to break it to you, but the big ones already see us 
... at least I’m pretty sure they do. See this scar?” 

“Will you shut up for a second?” John said. “Il asked 
Charlie, and she said we might be able to reverse engineer 
it. We can switch the wires, and instead of the earpieces 
including us, it would deliberately exc/ude us.” 

Carlton furrowed his brow. 

“It could effectively make us invisible ...” John prompted. 

“Switch the wires,” Carlton repeated. “It would mask us, 
and make us not a part of the world they can perceive.” 

“Right.” John nodded. 

Carlton waited for John to go on, then added, “What do 
you want me to do?” 


“Go to Jessica’s house. She’s got all of Charlie’s old stuff 
boxed up in a closet. If she’s not there, she leaves her spare 
key under the welcome mat.” 

Carlton raised his eyebrows. “Under the welcome mat? 
That’s a horrible place to leave a key!” 

“It’s a good neighborhood,” John said defensively. 

Carlton raised his eyebrows. “Yeah, it’s a good 
neighborhood, John. Nothing bad ever happens here.” 
Carlton slapped John on the shoulder as he headed for his 
car. “I’m on it!” he called. 

John let out a sigh, then went back inside. Marla was 
sitting on the couch, staring at the television, which was not 
turned on. 

“How is she?” John asked, sitting down beside her, and 
she shrugged. 

“Okay, considering the circumstances.” She turned away 
from the blank screen, looking distressed. “She was locked 
in a box! That’s insane, she was locked in a box! Who knows 
for how long—days, months? She must have been fed, given 
water, or she’d have starved, but she has no memory of it, 
she just remembers drifting in and out of sleep. She seems 
healthy. | don’t know what to Say.” 

Impulsively, John hugged her, and she sighed, hugging 
him back tightly. She released him abruptly, looking away as 
she brushed at her eyes. John pretended not to see. 

“Can | go sit with her for a minute?” he said when she 
straightened. “I won’t bother her, | just want to sit with her 
and know she’s there.” 

Marla nodded, her eyes brightening with tears again. 
“Don’t wake her up,” she admonished as he went to the 
door. He nodded, and slipped inside, closing the door behind 
him. 

Carlton pulled into the lot outside Jessica’s apartment 
building, glancing around for her car. It didn’t seem to be 
there. 

“Guess I'll be breaking and entering; sorry, Jess,” he said 
cheerfully as he pulled into a spot, but a sense of dread had 
already set in. He wanted company, even on this small 
errand. “Let’s see what skeletons Jessica has hiding in her 
closet.” He drummed his hands on the steering wheel, 
tamping down his nerves, and got out of the car. 

Jessica lived on the third floor. Carlton had only been to 
her place once, but he found it again easily. In front of her 
door was a welcome mat: it was dark green, the word 
WELCOME written out in black script. Carlton lifted the mat, 
but there was nothing under it. 

For a moment he stared, at a loss for what to do next, 
then he flipped the mat all the way over: taped to the center 
was a key. “Thought you could outsmart me?” he 
murmured, peeling off the clear tape. 

“Can | help you?” someone asked sternly from behind 
him. Carlton froze. The voice said nothing else, and so with 
deliberate movements he finished removing the key, set the 
mat back on the ground, and smoothed it back into place, 
trying to seem unconcerned. He put a pleasant expression 
on his face, stood, and turned to face an elderly man 
scowling at him from across the hall. He was wearing a 
faded button-up shirt and holding a hefty book, his finger 
marking his place. 

“Do | know you?” the man demanded. Carlton forced a 
grin and waved the key in the air. 


“Just visiting,” he said. “I’m a friend of Jessica’s.” The old 
man peered at him suspiciously. 

“She makes too much noise,” he said, and shut his door. 
Carlton heard three locks snap into place, then silence. He 
waited a moment, then turned and hurriedly entered 
Jessica’s apartment. 

He shut the door carefully behind him and glanced 
around. The apartment was no bigger—or nicer—than 
John’s, although it was definitely cleaner. Most of the 
furniture had probably come with the place, but Jessica had 
determinedly made it her own. The scuffed floor was as 
spotless as it could be made without an industrial sander, 
and Carlton looked guiltily down at his sneakers, thinking 
maybe he should have taken them off outside. Jessica had 
covered the worn-out couch in fluffy blankets and throw 
pillows; her textbooks were lined up neatly on a wide 
bookshelf made out of brightly painted wood planks, and 
above the shelf was a large corkboard full of photographs, 
cards, and ticket stubs. Carlton made his way over to it, 
curious. “Let’s see what Jessica’s been up to,” he said, 
talking to himself just to fill the silence. 

The corkboard was full of smiling pictures of Jessica with 
her friends; a graduation photo with her parents; ticket 
stubs from concerts and movies; two birthday cards, anda 
few postcards with enthusiastically—and illegibly—scribbled 
notes. Carlton let out a low whistle. “Somebody’s popular,” 
he muttered, then something else caught his eye: a child’s 
drawing, pinned to the lower corner of the board. He bent 
down to look, and his throat caught: it was a crayon drawing 
of five children, smiling happily as they posed with a big 
yellow rabbit. In the bottom left corner, the artist had signed 
his name, and Carlton reached out to touch it lightly. 


“Michael,” he whispered. He stared into the bright eyes of 
the yellow rabbit behind the children and his mouth went 
dry. /f only | could have warned you, somehow. 

He swallowed and straightened up, turning his attention 
deliberately back to the photos. 

“She sure gets out a lot,” he remarked, opening one of 
the cards to distract himself. HAPPY 15TH BIRTHDAY, JESSICA! it 
read, and he stepped back, feeling slightly ashamed as 
suddenly he understood. He glanced at the ticket stubs: 
they were all from shows in New York; the pictures with 
friends were all a few years old. Jessica’s new life, here, 
didn’t give her much in the way of mementos. Carlton 
turned away from the corkboard, wishing he had not 
intruded. 

“The closet,” he said loudly. “I have to find the closet 
with the stuff.” There was a kitchenette, and past that a 
hallway, presumably leading to the bedroom. He found a 
light switch and flipped it on, and the closet appeared, 
halfway down the hall. He opened it, half expecting the 
contents to come tumbling down on him, but though these 
were Charlie’s possessions, it was Jessica who had done the 
packing. Stacks of cardboard boxes filled the closet 
completely, each one labeled clearly: CHARLIE—SHIRTS AND 
SOCKS, CHARLIE—BOOKS, etc. At the very top of the stack was a 
long, flat box labeled, CHARLIE—WEIRD EXPERIMENT. 

“Weird experiment; feels like the story of my life these 
days,” Carlton whispered. He reached for it carefully, and 
had almost gotten it down when he knocked the corner 
against the box underneath it, sending, CHARLIE—MISCELLANEOUS 
to the ground. The box split open, soewing out computer 
parts and random bolts and scraps of metal, fur, and two 


unattached paws. Three plastic eyes bounced as they hit 
the floor, then rolled across the carpet, clacking against 
each other merrily. 

“This is life or death; someone else can clean it up,” 
Carlton decided. He stepped carefully over the rest of the 
mess, and carried the box into Jessica’s bedroom. He set it 
down on her bed, careful of the pale blue spread, and 
dragged the spare key across the packing tape to cut it. He 
opened the box. 

“Yikes.” He startled. Two identical faces stood upright in 
the box, staring at each other with blank eyes. They were 
like unfinished statues: they had features, but they were not 
refined, and seemed incapable of expression. He started to 
lift them out of the box, then realized that they were 
attached to something. With care, he managed to extract 
the entire structure: a large, black box with knobs and 
buttons, and the faces on their stand, wired to it. It all 
seemed to be intact. Carlton eyed the wall socket by 
Jessica’s bed for a moment, then grabbed the cord, and 
plugged the whole thing in. An array of lights came on, red 
and green, flashing on and off seemingly at random, then 
stabilizing: some off, some on. Several fans started to whir. 
Carlton looked at the faces: they were stretching, almost 
mimicking human movement. “Creepy,” he whispered. 

“You, me,” said the first, and he jumped back, 
disconcerted. 

“We, she,” said the second. He stared, waiting for more, 
but they were apparently finished for the moment, 
motionless and silent. Carlton shook his head, trying to 
make himself focus, though all he really wanted to do was 
sit here and watch the two faces, and see what else they 
might have to say. Or talk to them. He went back to the box: 


the earpieces John had described were wrapped up in a thin 
layer of bubble wrap. They looked like hearing aids, small 
clear pieces of plastic, full of wiring, with a tiny switch on 
one side. Carlton flipped the switch on one, and put it in his 
ear. Instantly, the faces turned to him, tilting up like they 
were looking straight at him. Can they see me? 

“Hi?” Carlton said reluctantly. 

“Who?” one asked. 

“Carlton,” he answered nervously. 

“You,” the other said. 

“Me,” said the first. 

“You guys really love pronouns, huh?” Carlton said. There 
was no answer from the faces. He took out the earpiece and 
flipped the switch off, and simultaneously the faces turned 
back to each other. Makes you visible. Right, he thought 
with a shiver. He turned back to the earpiece itself, sliding 
his thumbnail into the thin seam that ran around the edge of 
the casing. It popped open easily, revealing a mess of wires 
and a tiny computer chip. “Just switch the wires, it’s that 
easy,” he muttered to himself. There was a lamp ona 
nightstand beside Jessica’s bed, and he turned it on, holding 
the earpiece under the light. He stared at it, looking for a 
clue as to what John had been suggesting, angling the tiny 
object from side to side. At last he spotted it: a single, 
empty round input, outlined in red. “And why is nothing 
plugged in to you?” Carlton said triumphantly. He sorted 
through the other wires until he found one that matched it, 
the outline green. He quickly switched the wire to the red- 
lined plug and snapped the case back together, then 
switched it on and stuck it back in his ear. The faces did not 
move. 


“What's wrong? Don’t want to talk to me anymore?” he 
said loudly. There was no response. “Excellent,” he said, 
satisfied. He took out the earpiece and put it in his pocket, 
then grabbed the other one as well. He unplugged the 
experiment and was about to pack it back into the box, 
when he felt a sudden prickling between his shoulders, as if 
someone was Standing directly behind him. He could almost 
feel breath on his neck. Carlton held very still, scarcely 
breathing, then he spun around, his hands raised to defend 
himself. 

The room was empty. He flicked his eyes from side to 
side, unconvinced that he was alone, but there was nothing 
there. “Just pack up and get out,” he said weakly, but his 
heart was still pounding in his chest like he was fighting for 
his life. He took a deep breath, and went back to the 
experiment. Before he could touch it, the room dipped 
under him like a ship bobbing in the ocean, and he fell to his 
knees, clutching the bed frame to steady himself. His vision 
blurred: nothing was fixed in place anymore, everything in 
the room seemed like it was moving at various speeds and 
different directions. Carlton let go of the bed frame and sank 
to the floor as a piercing whine arose, quickly ascending to a 
pitch too high to perceive. He covered his ears, but it did 
nothing to ease the nausea. The room kept spinning, and his 
stomach lurched; he groaned, holding his head and closing 
his eyes, but the movement continued. He clenched his 
teeth, grimly determined not to vomit. What is happening? 

Carlton ... Carlton ... Someone called his name sweetly, 
and he looked. One thing in the room was still: an enormous 
pair of eyes, staring at him as the room rocked sickeningly. 
He tried to stand, but as soon as he moved, dizziness and 
nausea overwhelmed him. He pressed his cheek to the cool 


floor, desperate for relief, but it only made the room spin 
faster. 

“Carlton?” 

The room snapped back into focus; everything stopped 
moving. Carlton didn’t move, afraid of setting it all off again. 
“Carlton, are you okay?” said a familiar voice, and he looked 
up to see Charlie, bent over him anxiously. 

“Charlie?” he said weakly. “What are you doing here?” 

“John sent me to help. What were you doing with all this 
stuff?” she asked. 

“I’m sorry, | hope | didn’t break anything,” he said, sitting 
up carefully. The nausea still lingered, but it was easing as 
he began to trust that the room had steadied itself. He 
glanced at Charlie, his vision still a little fuzzy. 

“| don’t mind, it’s all junk anyway. But the way you were 
rolling around on the floor, you must have activated 
something, or electrocuted yourself, one or the other. Are 
you Okay?” 

“I think so,” he said. He slumped back against the bed. 

“Nausea? Room spinning?” she asked sympathetically. 

“Terrible,” he said. 

She put a hand on his shoulder. “Come on, we need to 
get out of here.” She stood and held out a hand to help him 
up; he took it, standing gingerly, the effects of whatever it 
had been were almost completely gone. He looked around 
the room, his vision clear. 

“What exactly were you doing?” Charlie asked, and 
Carlton froze. Her voice was too hard, too ... polished. He 
turned to her, keeping his face neutral. 

“He didn’t say? John thought you might want to have it, 
your old experiment. | think he wanted to surprise you with 
it,” he said. He grinned. “Surprise!” 


Charlie smiled. 

“You know, your old experiment?” Carlton’s mind raced. 
“The one with the robotic hand that could play the piano?” 
he added. “You remember?” 

“Right. How sweet of you to come get it,” she said, a 
flirtatious note in her voice, and Carlton’s blood went cold. 
He nodded carefully. 

“You know me. Always thinking of others,” he said, 
glancing over Charlie’s shoulder at the bedroom door 
behind her. It was closed. She took a step closer to him, and 
he stepped back instinctively. She looked surprised for a 
moment, then grinned, looking down and seeing the two 
faces in the box. He moved back again, startling when he hit 
the wall behind him. 

“Carlton, if | didn’t know better I’d think you were afraid 
of me,” Charlie said in a low voice, stepping so close there 
was almost no space between them, pinning him to the wall. 
She reached out toward his face, and he set his jaw, trying 
not to flinch. She ran her fingers down his cheek, then 
traced the line of his jaw. He didn’t move, his breathing 
Shallow. Charlie brushed his hair out of his face and pressed 
closer to him, trailing her hand to the back of his neck. Her 
face was inches from his. 

“Um, Charlie, you’re not really my type, you know?” he 
managed to Say. 

She smiled. “You haven’t even given me a chance. Are 
you sure?” she whispered. 

“Yeah, I’m sure. | mean don’t get me wrong, you’re okay- 
looking, but let’s be honest, you’re nothing to write home 
about,” he quipped, maintaining eye contact. “I mean, those 
boots with that skirt?” 

Charlie’s grin started to wane. 


“Sorry, that was rude. I’m sure you'll find a guy someday 
who appreciates you for who you are.” He tried to inch his 
way toward the door. “Now, if you'll excuse me, I’m late for 
quartet practice, so let me just get by you and I'll be on my 
way.” 

Carlton squirmed but Charlie didn’t budge. “I promise | 
won't tell anyone that | rejected you. Just hit that gym and 
we can try again in a few years.” 

“Carlton, you’re obviously flustered. There’s only one 
way to really be sure how you feel,” Charlie said softly. She 
leaned closer, and Carlton screwed his eyes shut. The 
earpiece. It was in his right pocket. 

“Charlie, you’re right, but maybe we should just talk fora 
while, you know. | rushed into my last relationship and | 
almost ended up dead in a moldy fur suit.” /ust distract her 
until ... his fingers closed on the earpiece, and he pulled it 
from his pocket, opening his eyes at the same time. 

Carlton screamed. 

Charlie’s face was splitting apart. Her skin had taken ona 
plastic cast, it was cracked at the middle, splintering into 
triangular sections. As he watched, her hand tightening 
around his neck, the triangles lifted up and pulled back like 
razor-edged flower petals, revealing an entirely different 
face, sleek and feminine, but definitely not human. The 
petals of what had been Charlie’s face began to move along 
the round perimeter of the new face, beginning to look more 
like a saw blade than a flower. The animatronic girl pursed 
her metal lips, leaning in for a kiss as the blades spun closer 
and closer to Carlton’s face. In a final burst of self- 
preservation, he yanked the earpiece out of his pocket and 
jammed it into his ear, flipping the switch. 


The animatronic girl drew back at once, letting go of 
Carlton’s neck with a surprised look on her metal face. She 
glanced around the room. He stared at her, frozen in terror 
for a moment, then he realized what was happening. She 
can’t see me. He waited, watching as she took deliberate 
steps backward, her eyes darting back and forth. She stood 
for a moment, the plates of her face snapping back together 
to form the painted, glossy face of a doll, then suddenly a 
ripple of light passed over her and she appeared to be 
Charlie again, her face expressionless. After another minute, 
she turned and went to the bedroom closet. She peered in, 
pushing clothes out of it as if something might be hidden 
behind them, then stepped away. She went to the bed and 
grabbed a corner, then lifted it off the ground. She 
considered the empty floor for a second, then let the bed 
drop with a crash. Once more she scanned the room, and at 
last, she opened the door to the bedroom and let herself 
out. Carlton tiptoed behind her, following her into the hall. 
She stopped short in front of the hall closet, and he almost 
bumped into her, barely catching himself before they 
collided. 

The animatronic girl ripped the boxes from the neatly 
stacked closet, tossing them haphazardly on the ground 
behind her. Carlton cautiously stepped back a few feet. 

When the girl was satisfied the closet was unoccupied, 
she checked the bathroom, then walked out into the living 
room. With one last, dissatisfied glance around, the 
animatronic girl left Jessica’s apartment, closing the door 
calmly behind her. Carlton rushed to the window, watching 
as she exited the building and walked away down the road, 
heading toward the town. 


Once she was out of sight, Carlton heaved a sigh, 
gasping as if he had been holding his breath. He felt dizzy 
again, light-headed, but this time it was only fading 
adrenaline. He started to take the earpiece out, then 
thought better of it and left it in place. He patted his left 
pocket, reassuring himself that the second earpiece was still 
there, and he hurried out of the apartment and down to his 
car. He drove away urgently, heading toward John’s house 
without regard for the speed limit, and hoping the 
animatronic girl was going the other direction. 

Charlie heard the door close, and she turned toward it. The 
room was dark except for the light filtering in through the 
small, dirty window, and she squinted to see who had just 
come in. 

“John?” she whispered. 

“Yeah,” he said in the same tone. “Did | wake you up?” 

“It’s okay, all | do lately is sleep, and dream.” The last 
word was bitter on her tongue, and he must have heard it, 
too, because he sat down on the chair Marla had placed 
beside the bed. 

“Is it okay if | sit?” he asked nervously, already there. 

“Yes,” she said. Charlie closed her eyes. The room was 
different now. Safer. “You said something,” she murmured, 
almost to herself, and John leaned closer. 

“Did |? What did | say?” He cleared his throat, his palms 
already sweating. 

“You said ... you loved me,” she whispered, and he jolted 
as if someone had struck him. 


“Yes,” he said, his voice sounding choked-off. “That is 
what | said to you. You remember that?” Charlie nodded 
carefully, knowing her response was inadequate. He turned 
away from her for a second, letting out a forced breath. “It’s 
true. | do!” he said in a rush, turning back to her. “I mean, 
you've been my friend since forever. Just like Marla or 
Carlton or Jessica. | would have said that to any of them. 
Well, maybe not Jessica. So, you remember some of that 
night, then?” he asked briskly. 

“It’s all | remember. And the door. John!” She grasped his 
arm, alarmed. “John, the door was opening, | think Sammy 
was inside—I could feel him there, his heartbeat ...” She 
trailed off as another memory overwhelmed her, a moment 
in the strange, artificial cave under the restaurant that was 
So like Freddy’s, and yet so unlike it. “Springtrap,” she said. 
“| fought with him. There was a metal spike, and his head 
...”” She could see him, gasping on the rocks as she ground 
the piece of metal torturously into his wound. 

“Il know; | saw it, too,” John said, an uncomfortable shift 
in his eyes. 

“He said, ‘I didn’t take him. | took you.’” 

“What?” John gave her a puzzled look, and she sighed in 
frustration. 

“Sammy! | asked him why, why he took my brother from 
me, and that was what he said. ‘I took you.’” 

“Well, you’re here now. He’s insane, anyway.” John 
attempted a smile. “He probably just said it to hurt you, to 
confuse you.” 

“Well, it worked.” She let her head sink back onto the 
pillow. “John, everyone’s avoiding the question: How long 
has it been? | Know it’s been more than days, but how bad is 
it? A month?” 


He didn’t answer. 

“Two months?” she ventured. “I Know it can’t be more 
than a year or you'd have a nicer apartment,” she said 
weakly, and he winced. “John, tell me,” Charlie insisted, 
hearing her own voice rising, her heart beating faster as she 
waited for him to speak. 

“Six months,” he said at last. She didn’t move. She could 
hear the blood rushing in her ears. 

“Where have | been?” she asked, her voice barely 
audible over the rushing sound. 

“Your aunt Jen, you were with her, at least | think that’s 
where you were.” 

“You think?” 

“I'll tell you everything, Charlie, | promise—as soon as | 
understand it myself. There are things | just don’t know,” he 
finished helplessly. She lay back, staring up at the ceiling. In 
the dim light, the stains looked like they could be 
decorative. 

“About your aunt,” John went on, something awful in his 
voice. “I saw her that night.” 

Charlie looked sharply at him. “That night?” 

“The building was coming down; you were inside, and | 
was trying to get to you, and she was just suddenly there— | 
don’t know how she got in, or why.” 

“It was her house, technically,” Charlie said, turning back 
to the ceiling. “Maybe she was there looking for me.” 

“And that makes sense to you?” 

“I! don’t know what makes sense,” she said steadily. “It 
doesn’t make sense what | remember and what | don’t 
remember. There’s no one moment where suddenly it all 
goes blank. But | don’t remember Aunt Jen being there.” 

“Okay,” he said. 


“| have to see her,” Charlie said with sudden intensity. 
“She’s the only one who knows how all of the pieces fit; 
she’s the one with all the secrets. She’s always tried to 
protect me from them, but now ... secrets aren’t protecting 
anyone.” 

She stopped: John looked stricken, his face stuck 
between expressions like he was afraid to move it. “John?” 
Charlie said, a knot forming in her stomach. John took a 
breath as if to soeak, then hesitated; she could see he was 
searching for words. She gave them to him. “She’s dead, 
isn’t she?” Charlie said faintly. She felt like she was drifting 
off again, but she was not losing consciousness. John 
nodded. 

“I’m sorry, Charlie,” he said hoarsely. “I couldn’t stop it.” 

Charlie looked back up at the stains. / should feel 
something, she thought. “You need your head clear,” she 
whispered, echoing her aunt’s habitual reminder. 

“What?” John was watching her anxiously. 

“Paperwork,” she said more loudly. “She kept files on 
everything, locked up in cabinets. Whatever she knew, she 
wrote it down, or someone else did. Where was she?” 

“A house, in Silver Reef, the ghost town,” John 
stammered; he looked taken aback. “There were files there, 
boxes of papers.” 

“Then we have to go back there,” Charlie said firmly. John 
looked as if he wanted to protest, but he just nodded. 

“She might go back there, too, if she thinks you'll be 
there.” John shared a worried look. 

“We have to go.” 

“Then we go there,” he said. Charlie closed her eyes, the 
decision releasing her into sleepiness. The door opened, and 
dimly, Charlie heard Marla and John whispering to each 


other. She took a deep breath, like she was going 
underwater, and let herself slip into the dark. 





Hey!” Something poked Jessica’s shoulder, and she 
shrugged it away and rolled over, still half-asleep. “Wey, you 
okay?” Something poked her cheek, much harder, and she 
opened her eyes and looked up to see a ring of children 
surrounding her, staring with wide eyes. Jessica screamed. 

Someone grabbed her from behind, covering her mouth, 
and she struggled to get away. 

“You have to be quiet,” a desperate voice whispered, and 
she turned to face a red-haired girl of about seven, looking 
at her anxiously. “If you’re not quiet, it’ll come get you,” she 
explained. 

Jessica sat up carefully and put a hand on her head; it 
felt like it was stuffed with cotton, and her sinuses were 
burning. “Not again.” Chloroform, or whatever that gas was. 

“What?” the girl asked. 


“Nothing,” Jessica said, looking at the frightened faces 
that surrounded her. There were four children in all, two 
boys and two girls: There was the young redheaded girl with 
freckles on her nose, and a stocky, African American boy of 
about the same age, who looked like he had been crying 
before she arrived. He was sitting cross-legged with a young 
Latina girl of three or four on his lap, hiding her face in his 
Shirt. Her fine brown hair had all but come loose from two 
long braids down her back, each capped with a pink ribbon, 
and the matching pink shorts and T-shirt she wore were 
stained and filthy. The last little boy, a skinny blond 
kindergartener with a massive bruise on his forearm, hung 
back a little from the rest, his hair hanging over his face. 
They were all looking at her like they expected her to do 
something. 

“What is this disgusting place?” Jessica wiped her hands 
on her shirt and shook out her hair as though it might be full 
of spiders. She stopped in midshake, and turned to the kids 
as though seeing them again for the first time. Her mouth 
hung open slightly. 

“You're the kids.” She gasped. “I mean, you’re the kids, 
the ones that were taken, and you're alive!” She suddenly 
remembered the mother at the hospital. We have to find 
that kid and bring him home, Jessica had insisted to John, 
the words sounding hollow even to her own ears. Now the 
kids were standing right in front of her. /t’s not too late to 
save you, she thought, filling her with new purpose. She 
looked at the little blond boy. “Are you Jacob?” she asked, 
her heart fluttering, and his eyes widened in response. 

“Hey, it’s going to be okay,” she said, trying to believe 
her own words. “I’m Jessica.” None of them answered her 
right away, instead glancing at one another, trying to reach 


some silent consensus. Leaving them to it, Jessica stood, 
surveying their surroundings. 

It was a dank, brick-walled room with a very low ceiling, 
so low that Jessica couldn’t fully stand upright. The room 
had exposed pipes all along the walls, some of them giving 
off plumes of steam. There was a large tank in one corner, 
probably a hot-water heater, and in the far corner was a 
door. Jessica went to it. 

“Don’t!” the redheaded girl squealed. 

“It’s okay,” Jessica said, trying to make her tone 
soothing. “I’m going to get us all out of here. Let’s just see if 
it’s locked,” she said, hearing her own voice ring out 
cheerful and hearty. She sounded patronizing; it was a tone 
she’d always despised in adults when she was a child. “I'll 
just check,” she said more normally. She walked briskly 
toward the door. 

“No!” three voices cried. Jessica hesitated, then grasped 
the knob firmly and gave it a twist. Nothing happened. 
Behind her, one of the children let out a sigh of relief. 

“It’s okay,” Jessica said, turning back to them. “There’s 
always another way out.” She scanned their anxious, grimy 
faces. “What happened here?” she asked. The boy with the 
child on his lap looked at her suspiciously. 

“Why should we tell you anything? You could be one of 
them.” 

“I’m in here, same as you,” Jessica pointed out. She 
dropped down to sit beside him, putting herself on the 
children’s eye level. “My name is Jessica.” 

“Ron,” he said. The little girl on his lap tapped his 
shoulder, and he bent down as she whispered something in 
his ear. “Her name’s Lisa,” he added. 


“Alanna,” the redhead said, a little too loudly. The blond 
boy didn’t say anything. Jessica eyed him, but did not ask. 

“Hi, Ron, Lisa, Alanna, and, Jacob,” Jessica said with 
excruciating patience. “Can you tell me what happened?” 

“She ate me in her tummy,” Lisa whispered. Instantly, 
Jessica felt the blood rush from her face. 

“You mean the clown girl?” Jessica asked softly. “The 
robot girl?” The children nodded in unison. 

“| was in the woods,” Alanna said. She held her hand 
against her stomach, then mimed the clamp shooting out. 
“Chomp!” she said, her face deadly serious. 

“| was riding my bike by my house,” Ron said. “There was 
a woman in the road—she came out of nowhere, and | fell 
off the bike, | was trying not to hit her.” He gestured to his 
knees, and Jessica noticed for the first time that they were 
scabbed over. He’s been here long enough for those to heal, 
she thought, but held her tongue, afraid if she interrupted 
he would stop talking altogether. “When | got up, she was 
standing over me,” Ron continued. “I thought she was trying 
to help. | told her | was okay, and she smiled, and then ...” 
He glanced down at the girl on his lap for a moment, then 
went on. “I swear, honest, her stomach split right open, and 
there was this big metal thing that came out of it, and—” He 
shook his head. “She’s not going to believe us.” 

“Did the thing grab you and pull you inside?” Jessica 
asked softly, and he looked up at her in surprise. 

“Yeah,” he said. “Did she get you, too?” he asked. 

“No, but I’ve seen it happen,” she said half-truthfully. 
“Then what?” 

“| don’t know. Next thing | remember | woke up in here.” 

“What about her?” Jessica gestured to the girl on his lap. 
He shrugged, looking briefly embarrassed. 


“As soon as she woke up, she climbed onto my lap.” 

“Do you know her?” 

“You mean from before?” He looked down at the little girl 
again. 

“No, none of us Knew one another before,” Alanna said. 
Jessica looked at the little blond boy, and he looked away. 

“Okay, well listen,” Jessica said, and they all turned their 
eyes to her again. Creepy. Like I’m really a grown-up or 
something, she thought uneasily. She took a deep breath. 
“I’ve dealt with ... things like this before.” 

“Really?” Alanna was suddenly skeptical; Ron watched 
her warily. Lisa opened one eye, then pressed her face back 
into Ron’s shirt. 

“I’m not with them,” Jessica said hurriedly. “I’m locked in 
here with you because | got caught trying to find out more 
about them.” 

“Did you know about us?” Ron asked. 

“Not much, but I’m glad that | found you—everybody’s 
been looking for you. The people who took you, they’re 
trying to hurt a friend of mine—they already have hurt her— 
and | came here to stop them, to save her from them. Now 
that | know you’re here, I’m going to save you from them, 
too.” 

“You're locked in here, just like us,” Alanna said, this time 
like she believed it. Jessica suppressed a smile, momentarily 
amused. 

“| have friends out there, and they’re going to help, we’re 
going to get you out of this.” Alanna still looked suspicious, 
but Lisa was peeking at her from behind her hair, loosening 
her grip on Ron’s shirt for the first time. “I promise you, 
everything is going to be all right,” Jessica said with a surge 
of confidence. She looked at the children with calm 


determination, surprised to realize she had meant every 
word. 


“John! Charlie!” Carlton burst in to John’s apartment, the 
door hitting the wall as it swung open. 

Marla jumped, sitting up straight on the couch. “Carlton, 
what’s going on?” 

He didn’t respond, scanning the room. Marla was alone; 
she had the TV on at a low volume. The door to John’s room 
was closed, and he went to it. “No one’s here,” Marla said 
with a hint of disapproval, but Carlton rushed to look inside 
anyway. “John’s not here; neither is Charlie,” Marla called. 

“Well, | ran into one of them,” Carlton said grimly. “One 
of the Charlies, that is. The bad one. Where is John? Where's 
everyone?” 

“John and Charlie went somewhere; they seemed to be in 
a hurry and they wouldn’t say where they were going.” 

“Jessica?” 

“| haven’t seen her. She’s probably at home.” 

“| was just at her apartment, she’s not there.” Carlton 
stared at Marla, palpable dread rising between them. 
“Charlie—the other Charlie, | didn’t even hear her come in; 
She didn’t knock or anything. It was like she knew Jessica 
wouldn’t be there.” 

“Wait, shut up,” Marla said suddenly, pointing to the TV. 

“Marla, this is serious!” Carlton said with alarm. 

“Look at this; they’ve been playing this commercial all 
day.” Then the cartoonish face of a little girl, painted like a 
clown, filled the screen. 


“Come dressed as a clown and eat for free!” said a 
booming voice, then the camera cut to the front of a 
restaurant. 

“That—that’s her!” Carlton shouted. “I mean the sign, 
the girl on the sign, the clown girl thing!” Marla leaned 
forward, squinting at the screen. Carlton stopped, thoughtful 
fora moment. “She was taller, and a little attractive. It was 
really confusing; so many emotions.” 

“They've been playing these all day. New restaurant, 
animatronic characters ...” 

“It’s like the girl on the sign was all grown-up, and 
wanted to feed me pizza ...” He trailed off. 

“Carlton!” Marla yelled, snapping him back to the 
present. 

“You know where it is? The new place?” he asked. 

“Yes,” Marla announced. She flipped off the TV and stood. 
“Let’s go.” Carlton looked her grimly up and down, then took 
the other earpiece out of his pocket. 

“Put this in your ear,” he said. “It’s all we have; trust 
me.” 

“Okay.” Marla snatched the earpiece out of his hand on 
her way out the door. “I guess you'll fill me in on the way?” 
Carlton didn’t answer as he hurried after her, slamming the 
door behind them. 





As they drove through the ghost town, Charlie could feel 
John’s eyes on her. She had not spoken since they got in the 
car, and she was beginning to dread the moment she would 
have to speak again. John made a sharp turn, jostling the 
car, and she jerked forward in her seat, pressing into the 
seat belt. 


“Sorry,” John said sheepishly. Charlie eased back again. 

“It’s fine,” she said with a small smile. “I know this might 
be a strange time to ask, but, where is my car?” 

“I’m afraid your doppelganger has your car.” He eyed her 
nervously, and she forced a crooked smile and nodded. 

“What would that police report look like, | wonder?” she 
said lightly, and John grinned. 

John slowed to a stop, his expression fading. “This is it,” 
he said quietly. Charlie opened her door and got out. They 


were at the bottom of a hill; John had stopped beside a 
narrow archway with a small, metal star at its crest. At the 
top of the hill was a small house. 

“Okay, let’s get this over with,” Charlie said. She looked 
around nervously, half expecting someone to come running 
at them. “Let’s go.” 

As they climbed the hill, John looked several times like he 
wanted to say something, but did not. When they reached 
the front porch, Charlie put a hand on his arm. 

“So, she’s still in there?” she asked. “Jen, | mean.” 

He nodded. “Yeah. At least, | think so. Are you sure you 
want to do this?” 

“| have to.” 

“I'll go in first,” he offered. “I can... cover her up, if you 
want me to.” He looked at her, distressed. Charlie hesitated. 
“No,” she said finally, and grasped the knob firmly. The 

door wasn’t locked, and Charlie scanned the room 
apprehensively as she entered. The place was in disarray, 
everything blended into everything else, and at first nothing 
stood out. Then they saw her. 

There was a woman in the corner, by the hallway; she 
was huddled against the wall, curled over herself, and her 
dark hair hung thickly over her face. Charlie heard a sharp 
intake of breath, then realized it was her own. She held a 
hand out stiffly behind her, unable to say in words what she 
needed, but John saw, and took her hand, stepping close 
behind her. 

“That’s really her?” 

“Yeah,” he whispered. “Did you want to get closer?” John 
asked uncertainly. 

Charlie shook her head. “No. It’s not her anymore,” she 
whispered, turning away, closing it off in her mind. She took 


a deep breath. “Where did you find ... me?” She gestured to 
herself, to make sure John knew which Charlie she meant. 

“That way.” 

John led her to the hallway, keeping wide of Jen’s 
slumped body; Charlie forced herself not to look directly at 
her, allowing herself to see only a dark, hunched shape in 
the corner of her eye as she passed. At the end of the hall 
was the open door to a storage room, filled with trunks and 
cardboard boxes. The window was open, and it was not until 
she breathed fresh air that Charlie noticed the damp, moldy 
smell that had taken over the rest of the house. 

“This one,” John said. He was standing beside a large 
green trunk, its lid standing open. 

“In here?” Charlie said bleakly, stepping over several 
boxes to get to him. She peered inside: there was a small 
pillow, and nothing else. “I was just in there?” she asked, 
somehow disappointed. 

“Yeah. | mean, Jen must have had a reason. She must 
have known about the imposter. Maybe she put you there 
just before we arrived.” 

Charlie reached out and closed the trunk. “I want to look 
around.” 

“What are we looking for?” John asked, and she 
shrugged, opening another trunk. 

“Anything,” she said. “If there’s anything useful, this is 
where it will be. We need to know what we’re up against.” 

They searched in silence for a while. None of the boxes 
were labeled, and Charlie opened them haphazardly, sifting 
quickly through the ones containing paperwork, and setting 
aside the others unexamined. Those contained random 
assortments of household items—dishes and silverware, 
knickknacks Charlie recognized from childhood, even some 


of her old toys. She scanned a box of Jen’s tax documents 
carefully, then replaced them, finding nothing that seemed 
to stand out. She reached for another box, then saw John 
giving her a funny look. 

“What?” she asked. He smiled, and there was a hint of 
something sad beyond it. 

“You read really fast,” was all he said. 

“Didn't anyone ever teach you how to speed-read?” she 
said briefly, then turned her attention elsewhere. Charlie 
abandoned the stack of boxes she had been going through 
and went to the far corner of the room. She shoved a 
precarious pile of neatly folded sheets and towels aside, and 
sat down cross-legged on the carpet. From here, she could 
not even see John, though she could hear him, shuffling 
through paper and muttering to himself under his breath. 
She swept her eyes up and down the stacks, one after 
another, then she saw it: Henry, written in her aunt’s careful 
script. Charlie moved three overcoats and another box, and 
then it was in her hands. 

She stared at the lettering for a long moment. The ink 
had faded over the years. Charlie traced it with her index 
finger, her pulse fluttering in her throat like her heart was 
trying to get out. Daddy. She opened the box, and saw it— 
on top was an old, green plaid flannel shirt, worn down as 
thin and soft as cotton. She picked it up as if it were 
something delicate, and pressed it to her face, inhaling 
through the fiber. It only smelled like dust and time, but the 
touch of the fabric on her face brought tears to her eyes. 
She breathed in and out slowly, trying to force them back, 
and finally regained her composure, though part of her 
howled out the unfairness of it, that she could not even take 
a moment to cling to his slight presence, and mourn. Self- 


consciously, Charlie put the shirt over her shoulders, letting 
it drape over her back as she leaned once more over the 
box. The rest of the box was stacked with smaller boxes, 
and she opened the first one to find a framed picture of 
herself with Sammy, infants in those few, precious years 
before everything was ripped apart. Under the picture was 
an envelope, addressed in her father’s handwriting, to 
“Jenny.” Charlie smiled and shook her head. / can’t imagine 
anyone calling Aunt Jen, “Jenny.” She opened the letter. 


My Dearest Jenny, 

| had an entire list of instructions written out for you; 
schedules and timetables, keys and procedures. You have 
indulged me so much, and it’s only now, at the end, that 
| see how it has helped me get through these dark times, 
but also how ultimately empty it has been. | had 
everything so carefully planned; I’ve worked so tirelessly. 
I’ve warped and twisted my surroundings to the point 
where | can never be sure if I’ve completely settled back 
into reality, and even if | did manage to turn off 
everything planted in the walls to deceive myself, | think 
my mind would deceive me still. | don’t need clinical 
testing of the long-term effects of these devices to know 
that I’ve undoubtedly done permanent damage to 
myself. | will always see what | want to see, but worse 
than that, there is the splinter, more like the stake, 
always deep into my heart reminding me more and more 
every day that what | see Is a lie. Through your patience 
and your indulgence of me, you’ve tried to keep me 
happy, but it’s also somehow brought me back from this 
world I’ve made for myself. | think maybe it would have 
been better for you to have not indulged me; then | could 


have excluded you from my bubble, convinced myself 
that you were crazy like everyone else. But instead, your 
unceasing love caused me to listen to you, to let you in, 
and the consequence of that was seeing the truth in your 
eyes, and letting that in as well. 

| have my Charlie here with me. You will never have to 
indulge me in her again. Rather than taking joy in her, | 
have cried over her, so many countless tears. | have 
poured agony into her, until she serves as another 
reminder not of what | once had, but of the unbearable 
pain of what was taken from me. She has come to reflect 
my pain back to me; whereas |, for a time, took great 
comfort in her eyes, | now only see loss, endless, 
debilitating loss. Her eyes will never fill me again. In fact, 
they have emptied me. 

Keep all the closets shut. Let them be tombs for my 
denial and my grievance. My only lasting instruction for 
you concerns the fourth closet. It is not enough to keep it 
shut, you must keep that one sealed and buried. My grief 
was already beginning to waken me to reality when | 
began what was to be her final stage. When | rose, 
Slightly, from the depth of my despair, | saw that | had no 
choice but to cease my work, for | was only feeding my 
own delusion. My old faithful partner, who | can only 
hope now is in a grave of his own, took what | had begun, 
and made something of his own—something dreadful. He 
crafted my beloved work into something of his own, and 
endowed it with who knows what kinds of evil. | was able 
to stop him, and to seal away what he made, and you, 
Jenny, must ensure that the seal remains. 

| would instruct you to demolish the house if | could 
trust that it could be done effectively. Keep it, and make 


sure the world forgets it. Then, someday, after many 
decades have passed and no one remembers, fill it with 
every kind of flammable thing and burn it to the ground, 
standing close guard to put a bullet into anything that 
emerges from the rubble, no matter what, or who, it 
looks like. 

I’m going to be with my daughter. 


Love always & to the end, 


Henry 


“Charlie?” John was standing behind her. Wordlessly, she 
held the pages out to him. He took them, and she moved 
aside the box the letter had been in and stared down at the 
next one. It was sealed with packing tape, but the sticky 
side was old and dry, the edges curling up from the 
cardboard. John shuffled the pages, still reading. Charlie 
shivered, despite the warm air, and she put her arms 
through the sleeves of her father’s shirt and rolled them up 
to her elbows. 

“Do you know what it means?” John asked quietly. Charlie 
looked up at him and shook her head. “Scoot over,” he said 
with a small smile, and she did, making room for him in the 
little soace among the boxes. He sat down facing her, 
crossing his legs awkwardly. He handed the pages back to 
her, and she scanned them again. “What did he mean about 
the closets?” John said. 

“| don’t know,” Charlie said drily. 

“Think,” John protested. “It has to mean something.” 

“! don’t know,” Charlie repeated. “You were there; they 
were always empty. Except the one with Ella.” 


“You don’t know that,” John said softly. “There was one 
that was locked,” he continued, almost to himself. 

“It doesn’t matter, does it?” Charlie said. “The house is 
gone. Unless you feel like digging through more rubble, this 
is all we have.” She pried the box with the peeling tape out 
of the larger box and handed it to him. All that was left 
under it was a lockbox, which opened easily when she 
tugged at the lid. It, too, was filled with papers: on top was a 
fine-pencil drawing of a familiar face. 

“That’s Ella,” John said, peering over her shoulder. 

“Yeah,” Charlie said. Her father had captured the doll’s 
delicate features in exquisite detail, not only her face but 
her shiny, synthetic hair, and the tiny creases in her dark, 
starched dress. Her eyes were open wide, and their blank 
stare was at odds with the rest of the picture: a perfectly 
lifelike representation of something lifeless. 

“Il didn’t realize he was such an artist,” John said, and 
Charlie smiled. 

“He said he drew things so he could see them, that it 
didn’t work the other way around.” She handed John the 
picture; below it was another, again of Ella, this time from 
the side. The next showed only Ella’s face, in profile. 

“He made Ella, right?” John asked, and Charlie tilted her 
head, considering the drawing. 

Charlie sorted through the rest of the pile more quickly 
and shook her head, confused. “They’re all of Ella.” 

John picked up the remaining cardboard box and ripped 
the tape off with sound like tearing cloth. It stuck to his 
fingers as he balled it up, and from the corner of her eye, 
Charlie saw him struggling to dislodge it. She paged through 
the drawings again. 


“Look at the notes.” She handed him the first drawing 
they had looked at, growing impatient as he peered at her 
father’s meticulous, but tiny handwriting. He read it out 
Slowly. 

“Height: 81 cm; Head circumference ...” He looked up. 
“It’s just measurements.” Charlie handed him another 
drawing. “Looks the same to me,” John said, then flicked his 
eyes to the notations. “Height: 118 cm.” John tilted the page 
as though he might be reading it wrong. 

“This one says 164.5,” Charlie said, holding up another, 
seemingly identical picture. “| don’t understand,” she said, 
setting the page in her lap. “Did he make another Ella?” She 
traced a finger along the line of Ella’s hair, smudging the 
pencil mark, then a thought struck her. “I wonder if he was 
trying to make it up to me,” she said. 

“What do you mean?” 

“If he was trying to give me ... a companion; a friend, 
because of what happened.” She met John’s eyes, unable to 
say what she really meant. 

“You mean Sammy? Because you lost your twin, he 
wanted to give you a doll that would ... what, grow up with 
you?” John said incredulously, and she nodded, relieved that 
he had made sense of her half-spoken words. 

“Maybe,” Charlie said softly. His eyes were pinched with 
worry, and he looked away, studying the drawings in his 
hands again. 

“It doesn’t really make sense, though, does it?” Charlie 
said. “What would | do with a five-and-a-half-foot doll on a 
track?” She reached for the letter again, holding it like a 
talisman though she did not need to read from it. “Was 
there a bigger version of Ella in the locked closet?” 


John’s eyes searched the air without a target in the silent 
room for several long moments, then snapped back to 
attention. Charlie was quietly looking down at her own hand, 
Slowly curling her fingers, then uncurling them. The silence 
dragged on, smothering, then John grabbed Charlie’s hand, 
Startling her. 

“| saw your blood.” 

“What?” Charlie said, startled. 

“| saw your blood that night. You bled. | don’t think Ella 
bleeds, do you?” The statement was absurd, but John was 
watching her uneasily, as if he expected a response. 
Seconds passed, and Charlie did not know what to Say. “1 
thought you were dead that night,” John whispered at last. 

“But I’m not dead, right?” She locked eyes with John. “I’m 
alive, right?” She took his hand, and he grasped hers tightly. 
He covered her hand in both his own, and she gave him a 
puzzled smile. “John?” she repeated nervously, and his jaw 
tightened. He looked on the point of speaking, when Charlie 
suddenly turned her head toward the window. 

“What is it?” John said with alarm. Charlie put a finger to 
her lips and tilted her head to listen. There’s someone 
outside. John watched her face intently, then his eyes 
widened as he registered the sound, too: the footsteps 
crunched one last time on gravel outside, then were silent. 

Around back, he mouthed, and Charlie nodded, dropping 
his hands and steadying herself on the trunk behind her as 
she stood. John hastened to help her, but she waved him 
off. 

“Come on,” she whispered. “Back door?” 

“Il don’t know.” He started to make his way toward the 
hall, motioning her to follow. “Charlie, hurry.” John had 
doubled back to her, and was pointing urgently to the door. 


She shoved the letter into her back pocket, and followed 
him, picking her way cautiously through the debris of the 
storage room. 

In the hallway, the thick and musty air hit like a wave, 
and Charlie swallowed her revulsion, trying not to picture 
her aunt’s body curled up in the next room. They crept 
down the hallway toward the front room, and the door, 
shuffling their feet so as to make no noise. At the end of the 
hall, Jonn stopped, and Charlie waited, listening. There was 
only silence, then a wind chime rattled outside the front 
door, and they pulled back into the recess of the hall. John 
looked grim. “There.” He nodded to the door opposite the 
storage room, which was slightly ajar. “Was that open 
before?” 

“Yes,” Charlie answered. “I mean, | think so.” They made 
their way slowly toward the open door: Charlie breathed 
shallowly, trying to register the slightest noise over the 
pounding of her own heart. As they reached the doorway, 
she heard a rustling, like someone stepping on soft leaves. 
John and Charlie split up and stood on either side of the 
doorway, Charlie by the hinges and John by the knob, and 
slowly, he pushed the door the rest of the way open. Charlie 
saw the relief on his face before she saw what was in the 
room: a bed, a dresser, and absolutely nothing else, not 
even a closet. There was a window open, and John turned 
back toward Charlie. “I think we’ve got a way out,” he said. 
She smiled back shakily. “Stay back while | check,” he 
whispered, and before she could answer, he had pushed the 
door farther open into the room, and was moving stealthily 
toward the open window, keeping in a straight line through 
the center of the room. Charlie stayed in the hall, pressing 
the door open so she could see the entirety of the room. 


Charlie watched nervously. Hurry, she urged him silently. 
Then as she thought it, she felt the door stop against her 
fingers as though something was blocking the way. /s there 
something behind the door? Slowly, noiselessly, she leaned 
to the side and put her eye to the crack in the door, along 
the hinges. Her heart stopped. 

Another eye was looking back at her. 

Charlie staggered back. The door wavered for a moment, 
then slammed shut. From inside the room something 
banged and crashed over and over against the wall. “John!” 
Charlie cried, and beat against the door. Suddenly, the 
house went still, and a few moments later the door drifted 
open and a figure glided out gracefully, stepping into the 
hall with care as though trying not to wake a sleeping baby. 
Charlie stared disbelievingly at her duplicate, her mind 
hazily registering all the tiny differences between them as 
she struggled for words. 

“You're not me,” Charlie managed to say, and her own 
face smiled cruelly back at her. 

“I’m the only you that matters.” 





Is it working?” Marla asked, nervously tapping the device in 
her ear. Carlton sped up the car. 

“Mine worked,” he said brusquely. He glanced at her; she 
was kneading her hands together, her knuckles going white. 
“I mean, you can’t rea/l/y tell if it’s working until ...” 

“Until what?” Marla said. 

“Well, until you’re in danger, and...” 

“And what?” Marla seemed impatient. 

“And you don’t die.” Carlton nodded reassuringly. 

“So how do we know if they’re not working?” Marla’s 
voice had lost its energy. 

“Well, if it doesn’t work, you won’t have to worry about it 
for long.” He smiled. 

“Right.” Marla stopped fidgeting with the device and put 
her hand in her lap. 


“It will work. | rewired yours exactly like mine.” 

“I’m not usually in the thick of this stuff,” Marla said. “| 
come in afterward with hugs and Band-Aids. If this were a 
movie, I’d be the lame babysitter, not the action hero.” 
There was a hint of bitterness in her voice, and Carlton 
looked at her, surprised. 

“Carlton, the road!” 

He snapped his attention back to what he was doing and 
gave the wheel a controlled jerk. 

“Marla, I’ve seen you in the thick of this stuff—remember 
Freddy’s?” 

She gave a halfhearted nod. 

“And don’t dismiss the power of hugs and Band-Aids,” he 
added, slowing the car as the restaurant’s sign came into 
View: CIRCUS BABY’S PIZZA blazed out over the night, casting half 
the block in garish red light. “Can’t miss this,” Carlton 
remarked as they pulled into the parking lot. As soon as 
they were past the neon sign, its brilliant, witchy light faded 
into the background: the lot was stark and bare. 

“No one’s here. Are you sure about this?” Marla said 
urgently. 

“No, but | Know what | saw.” Carlton drove slowly toward 
the entrance, pointing toward the clown girl mascot leaning 
over the entryway sign. “And that is who attacked me.” 

They parked close to the building. Carlton stopped to 
rummage around in the trunk for a minute, coming up with 
two small flashlights. He flicked one on and off 
experimentally, then handed it to Marla. 

“Thanks,” she whispered. 

They started around the side of the building and Carlton 
swept his light along the wall, illuminating a row of tall, 


rectangular windows. The window surfaces were tinted so 
dark they could not see in, and the frames were smooth 
black metal, with nowhere to force an opening. Carlton 
shook his head, and gestured toward the back of the 
building. Marla nodded, gripping her flashlight like a lifeline. 

There was more parking behind the building, and the 
back wall was lined with trash cans, two Dumpsters sticking 
out on either side of a metal door. The only light came from 
a single, flickering orange bulb, set above the plain door like 
a decoration. 

“Looks like this is our way in,” Carlton whispered. 

“Look.” Marla shone her light down onto fresh prints in 
the mud, tracking close to the wall and leading up to the 
door. “Jessica?” Marla looked to Carlton. 

“Maybe.” 

Marla grabbed the door handle and pulled hard, but it 
didn’t budge. 

“1 don’t think we'll find another way in,” she whispered, 
and he grinned. 

“You think | didn’t come prepared?” Carlton said, slipping 
a flat leather case from his pocket. He held it out to her. 
“Hold this,” he said, and selected several thin strips of metal 
as she balanced the case for him. 

“Are those lockpicks?” Marla hissed. 

“If there’s one thing I’ve learned from watching my dad, 
it’s that lockpicking can be used for good,” Carlton said 
solemnly. He bent over the lock, trying to keep his head out 
of the way of the light, and slowly began to wriggle the lock 
picks into place. 

“Oh, whatever. You can’t pick a lock ... can you? Is it even 
legal to own these?” Marla asked. He looked back at her; 


she was holding the kit away from her body as if trying to 
disassociate herself from it. 

“It’s legal as long as you don’t pick any locks,” he said. 
“Now be quiet so | can pick this lock.” Marla looked around 
nervously, but didn’t say anything. He turned his attention 
back to the door, listening for the telltale clicks of the 
tumblers falling into place as he carefully made his way 
through the mechanism. 

“This is taking forever,” Marla whined. 

“| didn’t say | was good at this,” he said absently. “Got 
it!” He grinned, triumphant. 

The door opened with a creak, revealing a wide hallway 
with a gentle upward slope. The hall itself was dark, but a 
few yards ahead, they could see the dim glow of florescent 
lights. Marla pulled the door closed behind them, cushioning 
it with her hand so that it wouldn’t slam. The light was 
coming from an open door on the left side of the hall: they 
waited, but no sound came from its direction, and they 
started to move, hugging the wall. As they got closer, 
Carlton sniffed the air. “Shh,” Marla hissed, and he jerked 
his head toward the door. 

“Pizza,” he whispered. “Can’t you smell it?” Marla 
nodded, and impatiently waved him forward. 

“Of all the smells in this place, that’s the one that 
catches your attention?” The open door proved to be the 
kitchen, and they glanced around briefly, then Carlton went 
to a large refrigerator and pulled it open. 

“Carlton, forget the pizza!” Marla said in dismay, but the 
refrigerator held only racks of ingredients. Carlton closed 
the door. 

“You never know who could have been hiding in there,” 
he said quietly as they exited the kitchen. At the end of the 


hall was a swinging double door, with small windows just at 
Carlton’s eye height, and he surveyed what he could see of 
the next room, then pushed the door open. Marla gasped. 

“Creepy,” Carlton said mildly. The dining room in front of 
them was lit with the same dim, florescent light, giving the 
brand-new place an odd dullness. There were tables and 
chairs at the center, and arcade games and play areas 
along all the walls, but their eyes were drawn immediately 
to the small stage at the back corner. Its purple curtain was 
pulled open, and it was empty, except for a bright yellow 
rope strung across the front and a sign with a picture of a 
clock on it. NEXT SHOow: it read in neat, handwritten letters, but 
the clock had no hands. Marla shivered, and Carlton nudged 
her. “It’s not the same,” he whispered. 

“It’s exactly the same,” she said. Carlton looked around 
at the rest of the room, his eyes lighting on a ball pit that 
stuck out from the front wall in a half circle, a round red 
plastic awning arcing over it, trimmed with white. 

“Look at the monkey bars.” She pointed. Across the 
room, three small children steadily climbed the tangled 
structure of red and yellow bars. Carlton, startled, looked at 
Marla with surprise, then ran to them. 

“Are you Okay? Where are your parents?” he asked 
breathlessly, then his mouth went dry. The children were not 
human, or alive. Their animatronic faces were painted like 
clowns, their features absurdly exaggerated: One had a 
round, red nose that covered half its face and a white wig of 
synthetic curls; another had a molded smile on its face and 
a painted red grimace. The third, a red-cheeked, smiling 
clown with a rainbow-colored wig, looked almost cute, 
except for the gigantic spring that replaced the middle of its 


torso, boinging up and down each time it moved. All of them 
had black eyes, with no iris or pupil, and they did not appear 
to see Carlton. He waved his hands, but they did not turn 
their heads, just kept grasping the bars with their pudgy 
hands, and pulling themselves along the structure with 
uncanny precision. All of them emitted a loud whirring 
sound, as if they were wind-up toys that had been set loose 
to climb. The child with the spring suddenly flung its top half 
over the top of the bars, the spring extending into a long, 
wavy wire, then it grabbed a bar, and its feet shot into the 
air wildly, and came snapping back into place on the other 
side. 

“My mistake, you’re not the kids we’re looking for, carry 
on,” Carlton whispered shakily, as the creatures continued, 
weaving over and under, back and forth through the 
structure. “They don’t see us,” Marla whispered, and it took 
him a moment to register her voice. 

“What?” he said, his eyes still on the clown-children. 

“They don’t see us,” she repeated. “These little things 
are working.” She tapped her ear. 

“Right, good,” Carlton said, pulling himself away from the 
scene. Marla was smiling with relief. “We still have to be 
careful, though,” he warned. “I can’t guarantee it works on 
everything, and it definitely won’t work on people.” 

Marla shivered, then nodded quickly. “There’s a room 
past the stage,” she said. 

“Looks like an arcade,” Carlton said grimly. 

Marla slowed by the stage, her hand drifting toward the 
curtain as if she might try to look behind it. “No.” Carlton 
grabbed Marla’s hand. “The last thing we want to do is call 
any attention to ourselves.” Marla nodded in agreement. 


The arcade smelled overpoweringly of new plastic, the 
games gleaming and scarcely played. There were a dozen or 
so freestanding arcade cabinets, and two pinball machines, 
one—predictably, by now—clown-themed, and the other 
painted with cartoonish snake charmers. Carlton gave them 
a wide berth. Marla caught his sleeve and gestured to a 
closed door on the wall to their left, an Exit sign glowing red 
above it, and he nodded. They headed for it, creeping past a 
“test your strength” game, governed by an adult-size clown 
with a face made of jagged metal plates who nodded 
continuously, its painted smile maniacal. As they passed 
Carlton watched it carefully, but its eyes did not seem to 
track their movements. When they reached the door, 
Carlton took a deep breath, then gently pushed on the bar. 
It gave way immediately, and Marla sighed with relief. 
Carlton pushed the door open, holding it out for her, then 
froze as the unmistakable clack of servos broke the silence 
behind them. 

They both spun around; Carlton braced his arm in front of 
Marla’s chest protectively, his heart racing, but nothing was 
moving. He scanned the room, then saw it: the clown 
standing over the game was staring at them, its head 
cocked to the side. Carlton glanced at Marla, and she 
nodded minutely: she had seen it, too. Slowly, she backed 
through the door, as Carlton watched the animatronic, but it 
showed no further signs of movement. When Marla was 
safely through the door, Carlton waved his arms, hoping 
desperately that it would not see him. The clown remained 
motionless, having apparently returned to stasis. Carlton 
Slipped out of the room and closed the door carefully behind 
him. He turned, and almost fell over Marla, who was backed 


up almost to the wall. “Watch it,” he whispered good- 
naturedly, catching her shoulder for balance. 

Then he looked up, and swayed on his feet, disoriented 
by a dozen distorted, menacing figures. He took a breath, 
and the room fell into place: mirrors. Before them was an 
array of funhouse mirrors, each one distorting the images it 
reflected. Carlton’s eyes flitted from one to the next—one 
showed him and Marla as tall as the ceiling; in the next they 
were blown up like balloons, crowding each other out of the 
frame; in the next their bodies looked normal, but their 
heads shrank to stalks an inch wide. 

“Okay, then,” he whispered. “How do we get out of 
here?” 

As if in answer to his question, two mirrors slowly began 
to swivel, turning toward each other until they had made a 
narrow door in the wall of close-set panels. Beyond the 
small opening lay more mirrors, but Carlton could not tell 
how many there were, or which way they were directed, as 
one mirror caught another, doubling the reflections until it 
was impossible to see what was real and what was not. 
Marla stepped through the gap and beckoned: there was a 
gleam in her eye, but Carlton couldn’t tell if it was 
excitement, or the strange, dim light. He followed her, and 
as soon as he was through the gap the panels began to 
pivot again, closing them inside. Carlton glanced around, 
growing nervous now that their exit had been blocked off. 
They seemed to be in a narrow corridor that branched off in 
two directions, the walls made of more floor-to-ceiling mirror 
panels. 

“It’s a maze,” Marla whispered, and gave him a smile 
when she saw the look on his face. “Don’t worry,” she 
added. “I’m good at mazes.” 


“You're good at mazes?” Carlton said with irritation. 
“What is that supposed to mean? /’m good at mazes.” 

“What's wrong with saying that? I’ve always been good 
with mazes.” Marla shook her head. 

“What, like the hay maze? When we were five? Is that 
what you’re talking about?” 

“Il got through it before anyone else did.” 

“You climbed over the top of the bales. You’re not 
Supposed to do that.” 

“Oh, you’re right.” Marla’s face flushed. “I’m not good at 
mazes.” 

“We will get through this together.” Carlton took her 
hand, long enough to stop her from having a panic attack, 
then released it. 

She looked in both directions, thoughtful, then pointed 
decisively. “Let’s try that way,” she said. They started down 
the path she had chosen, and Carlton followed, keeping his 
eyes on her feet in front of him. After only a few steps he 
heard her sharp intake of breath, and snapped his head up: 
they were at a dead end. 

“Dead end already?” he said, surprised. 

“No, the panel closed,” she hissed. 

“This way, hay maze,” Carlton said with a hint of 
amusement. “Back this way.” 

They started back the way they had come, and this time 
Carlton saw the panels move: as they moved back to the 
spot where they had come in, a panel swung toward them, 
cutting off their path. A second later, another panel swung 
away, opening a new corridor. Marla hesitated, and Carlton 
stepped up beside her. “No choice, let’s go,” he said. She 
nodded, and they walked deeper into the maze. 


As soon as they had crossed the new threshold, the panel 
swung shut. They looked around for the new opening, but 
there was none: they were enclosed on all sides by mirrors. 
Carlton walked the small perimeter quickly, beginning to 
panic. 

“Carlton, just wait, another one will open,” Marla 
whispered. 

“| kn-ow you're in h-ere.” An unfamiliar voice rang out. It 
seemed to come from everywhere at once, echoing like it 
was bouncing from panel to panel. The sound was 
mechanical, glitching out midword. They exchanged a 
glance: Marla’s face was pale with fear. 

“There!” Carlton pointed. A panel had opened while they 
were distracted. He rushed for it, and walked into a mirror, 
smacking his head on the glass. “Ow.” 

“It’s there,” Marla hissed, pointing to the opposite side of 
the enclosure. 

The panel began to swing shut, closing the room off 
again. 

“ll f-ind you ...” The glitching voice had a strange, 
unsteady tone. 

“Carlton!” Marla stood in the gap, holding out a hand, 
and he ran for her, both of them making it through just as 
the panel rotated back to its position. 

“What were you going to do, stand there and let it crush 
you?” Carlton hissed. 

“| hadn’t considered we could get caught between the 
panels. This place is just asking for a lawsuit.” Marla 
straightened herself. “It’s been a lovely evening, but | think 
I'd like you to take me home now,” she said calmly. 

“Take you home? Take me home!” Carlton said before 
pausing to listen. 


“| know j-ust where you a-re ...” 

They were in a hallway again, this one with two corners 
to choose from. They exchanged a grim look and turned to 
the left, moving slowly. Carlton kept his eyes on Marla’s 
shoes ahead of him, trying not to look at the walls on either 
side, where ranks of their duplicates marched silently beside 
them, misshapen and warped in the mirrors, then, 
occasionally, appearing normal. When they reached the 
corner, something flashed in the corner of his eye, a 
reflection of a reflection of giant eyes, staring at them. 
Carlton grabbed Marla’s shoulder. 

“Over there!” She shuddered. 

“| saw it, too.” 

“Come on, go, go, go,” Marla whispered. “Just follow me. 
Stay calm; remember, nothing can see us.” 

“I’m getting clo-ser ...” The mechanical voice echoed 
through the chamber. 

“It’s just a recording,” Carlton whispered. “It’s coming 
from everywhere, | don’t think there is anything actually in 
here with us.” Marla nodded, looking unconvinced. A few 
steps ahead of them, panels began to pivot again, closing 
off their path: Carlton glanced behind them—the other end 
of the hall had closed, too. Marla inched closer to him. 

“| see you...” 

“Shut up,” Carlton whispered. He tried to slow his 
breathing so it made no sound, imagining the air going in 
and out, filling his lungs without touching the sides. The 
panel to their right began to swing open slowly, and they 
backed out of its way. Marla gasped, and Carlton grabbed 
her arm, seeing it: there was something behind the slowly 
opening mirror, though he couldn’t make out what. They 
backed up farther, taking small, cautious steps. Carlton 


searched the mirrored panels for an exit, but saw only his 
own face, bulging and deformed. 

“There you are...” 

The panel opened, revealing a kaleidoscope of purple, 
white, and silver, glancing off every mirror disjointedly. 
Carlton blinked, trying to make sense of the reflections, then 
a figure at the center stepped into the makeshift room. 

He was a bear, built like Freddy Fazbear, and yet entirely 
unlike him: his metal body was gleaming white, accented 
with vibrant purple. He held a microphone in his hand, the 
top sparkling like a disco ball, and on his chest, at the center 
of a purple metal shirtfront, was a small, round speaker. 
Only a few feet from them, the new Freddy turned his 
massive head from side to side, his eyes passing over them. 
Carlton glanced at Marla, who tapped her ear and nodded. 
He put his finger to his lips. Freddy took two steps forward, 
and they stepped back, pressing against the wall. Freddy 
looked from side to side again. 

“| kn-ow just wh-ere you are...” The sound was 
earsplitting, rattling Carlton’s teeth, but Freddy’s mouth did 
not move—the voice was projecting from the speaker in his 
chest. 

Carlton held his breath as the bear’s eyes passed over 
him, reminding himself that he was masked, but the bear’s 
eyes hesitated on him before moving away. Carlton could 
feel the sweat beading on his forehead. 

The wall behind them repositioned, and Carlton shifted 
his weight just in time not to fall, Marla moving just behind 
him. The panel swung open slowly, and they edged away as 
Freddy walked slowly in their direction, heading for the new 
exit—where they were now standing. Marla touched 
Carlton’s arm, guiding him to the side just as Freddy 


lumbered past them, his shiny surface almost brushing 
against Carlton’s nose. 

“I’m get-ing closer,” Freddy stuttered menacingly as he 
disappeared around a corner. The panel began to swing 
shut, and Marla pointed urgently to the door Freddy had 
come in. They raced for it, making it through just before the 
mirrors closed. 

Carlton and Marla stared at each other, gasping as if 
they’d run miles. “Was that Freddy?” she whispered. He 
shook his head. 

“I don’t know, but he was different,” Carlton said. 

“What? Different from what?” 

“The other animatronics we’ve seen so far. He was... 
looking at me,” Carlton said uncomfortably. 

“They’re all looking at us.” 

“No, he was looking at me.” 

“I can hear you; come on out!” Freddy called out as if on 
cue. His voice echoed through the maze of mirrors, as 
impossible to locate as it had been before. Carlton took a 
deep, steadying breath. 

“How are we supposed to get out of here?” he whispered, 
trying to sound calmer than he felt. “Where even are we?” 

“There, that light.” Marla pointed over their heads at the 
rafters above them, where a red stage light beamed down 
over the entirety of the maze. 

“What?” 

“| saw that light when we first came in, but it must have 
been at least twenty feet away, now it’s right over our 
heads. We just have to keep moving away from it now,” she 
said confidently. Carlton studied the ceiling for a moment, 
considering what she'd said. 


“Il told you; I’m good at mazes.” She winked. “We just 
have to wait for the right panels to open.” She pointed 
toward a specific panel. 

“That could take ages,” Carlton said despairingly. 

“It will take longer if we don’t keep track of what 
direction we’re going in,” Marla said. “Come on.” She set off 
down the path she had indicated, and Carlton followed close 
behind. 

“I’m getting clo-ser ...” Freddy’s voice resounded through 
the maze. 

“That sounded like it was behind us again. He’s coming 
around,” Carlton whispered. 

“Okay, okay. Then we go around, too.” 

“Just get us out,” he said quietly. Marla nodded, and they 
walked cautiously onward, flanked by their various, 
distorted duplicates. 

The pivoting panels forced them nearly in a circle before 
giving them a choice of direction, and Marla leaped on the 
chance, grabbing Carlton by the hand and almost running 
down the passage until they were stopped again, and made 
to turn. 

“Shh,” Carlton hissed frantically. 

Marla pushed experimentally on the side of one of the 
panels, but it didn’t budge; Carlton stepped up to help, 
throwing his full weight against the mirror, but even under 
their combined force, it would not turn. “I don’t know why | 
thought that would work,” Marla whispered. 

“I’ve almost g-ot you ...” Freddy intoned. Marla looked 
around uncertainly. 

“I’ve got a really terrible idea,” Carlton said slowly. Marla 
gave him a warning look. “Are you still keeping track of 
where we are? Or at least, the direction that we should go?” 


“| think so,” she said, scanning the rafters again, a look 
of comprehension dawning on her face. 

“Close enough,” he said. 

“What are you going to do?” Marla asked, sounding like 
she already regretted it. Carlton took the flashlight out of his 
pocket and made a fist around it, wound up his arm, and 
smashed the butt of the light into the mirror in front of 
them. The glass shattered with a high, clear noise, and a 
dull pain reverberated up his arm. 

“I can h-ear you in th-ere ...” Freddy’s voice sputtered 
from all around them. 

“Does he just say that, or did he actually hear that?” 
Marla said. 

The panel with the broken mirror swung open, but before 
they could move there was a rushing sound of heavy 
footsteps and crunching glass shards. Carlton held his 
breath, and nodded to Marla. Freddy stepped into the room 
with forceful steps, then immediately stopped in the center, 
his upper body slowly turning to scan the surroundings. 
Carlton and Marla crept around the glass shards, and snuck 
through the open panel behind the animatronic. In the 
corridor, Carlton looked questioningly at Marla, and she 
pointed. He nodded, strode to the farthest mirror, and 
Smashed it. 

In an instant, Freddy pivoted toward them. The wide- 
eyed face turned from side to side. After a moment, another 
panel began to open beyond the freshly broken mirror. 
Carlton and Marla ran for it, the glass breaking beneath 
their feet. “There!” Marla yelled. 

Carlton looked up and could see an exit sign above a 
door, just a few yards from where they stood. Marla caught 


Carlton’s eye and mouthed, We’re a/most there. 

“Come back here!” said Freddy’s maniacal voice, and 
then they all stepped out into the last passage: a jauntily 
painted ticket booth was visible, and beyond that, an open 
wall. Marla and Carlton exchanged a glance, and cautiously 
sped up. “Got you,” Freddy said. The speaker was right 
behind Carlton’s head, and Carlton startled, tripping over his 
own feet. 

He righted himself with a palm on the mirror, then took 
off after Marla, and ran straight into his own reflection, 
hitting his face on the glass. “Marla, wait!” he screamed: he 
could see her reflected in three mirrors, but was still unsure 
of where she had actually gone. “Wait.” He rubbed his 
forehead, and looked into the nearest mirror, trying to see if 
he was bleeding. He was not, but something was wrong. It 
took him a second to realize that his earpiece had been 
knocked loose. He looked around in panic, when suddenly 
Freddy loomed behind him in the mirror. 

Carlton froze in place; the massive white-and-purple 
bear’s head was staring at him from the mirror, looming 
over his shoulder. He looked down and saw the earpiece at 
his feet, in one swift motion he leaned down to grab it. His 
hands were shaking, and he struggled to get it back into his 
ear. When he looked up, Freddy was standing over him, and 
Carlton was lifted off his feet with a sudden, painful force. 
Carlton jerked and dropped back to the ground, the earpiece 
falling beside him. 

Freddy drew back and stared at Carlton for a moment, his 
eyes clicking back and forth, and his mouth opened just 
enough to reveal two long rows of perfectly polished white 
teeth. Carlton leaped toward the earpiece on the ground 
just as Freddy’s arm shot out and shattered another glass 


panel. Carlton hit the wall headfirst with a bang, and 
recoiled in pain. 

Freddy turned his head, first from side to side, then all 
the way around to face backward, his eyes searching wildly. 
Carlton scanned the ground in a panic, and saw the 
earpiece again, but it was in three places, in three mirrors. 
The glass crunched again nearby, but Carlton kept his eyes 
on the earpieces, switching from one to another in a 
desperate attempt to see which one was real. Suddenly, a 
human hand reached down and grabbed the earpiece in 
each of the three panels. 

“Carlton!” Marla called, and he turned toward the sound 
and saw her, not a reflection but the real Marla as she threw 
the earpiece to him. Carlton snatched the earpiece out of 
the air, and shoved it into his ear. Freddy stopped in place, 
his arms still outstretched. Carlton didn’t dare move, though 
the microphone was inches from his face. In his peripheral 
vision he could see Marla inching toward a door with exit 
over it. Freddy turned his head from side to side again as he 
Slowly straightened from his attacking posture. 

“I'll f-ind you ...” came the voice from his chest, and he 
lowered his arms. Marla turned the doorknob, and pushed 
the door slowly open, just enough to see that it was 
unlocked. Scarcely breathing, Carlton backed away from 
Freddy, keeping his eyes on the animatronic until he was 
beside Marla. 

In one fluid motion, she eased open the door, they darted 
through it, then shoved it closed behind them. There was a 
deadbolt near the top, and Carlton flipped it, put his ear to 
the crack. There was nothing but silence from the other 
side, and he turned to Marla and heaved a sigh, light- 


headed with relief. They were in a dark hall, completely free 
of mirrors. 

“Dark, scary hallway,” Marla muttered. 

“It’s beautiful,” Carlton said. 

A scream ripped through the air from somewhere nearby, 
and they both froze. 

“Not finished yet,” Carlton said, and took off running 
toward the sound, Marla close at his heels. 





Everyone, be very quiet,” Jessica whispered. The children 
just stared at her, their eyes wide and solemn. They stood 
together in the back corner of the small, dank room, 
awaiting her instructions: Three-year-old Lisa was still 
huddled behind Ron, her chosen protector, and Alanna had 
taken hold of the little blond boy’s hand, though he was 
wriggling in her grasp. Jessica swallowed. Why do / have to 
be the leader? It’s bad enough when I’m just in charge of 
myself. 

She bent down to the children’s level, trying to summon 
some kind of leadership quality. Should have listened to 
Mom. Should have played a team sport. But no, | had to be 
the quiet girl in the corner chewing the eraser off her pencil. 

Jessica studied the door again, then took a more serious 
tone. “Is there something out there?” Alanna and Ron 


exchanged a worried glance. “What’s outside? You can tell 
me,” Jessica pleaded. 

“It comes in through the door,” Alanna said, not meeting 
Jessica’s eyes. “She ...” The little girl broke off and covered 
her face, mumbling something unintelligible behind the 
mask of her hands. 

“She? Who, the ... woman who took you?” Jessica asked 
gently, trying to contain her impatience. Alanna shook her 
head vigorously, her face still hidden. 

“We thought it was a toy. It wasn’t scary like everything 
else.” Ron searched for words, and Lisa tugged on his shirt 
and whispered something, too quietly for Jessica to make 
out. Ron nudged her. “Tell her.” Lisa looked up at Jessica 
with a suspicious expression on her grubby toddler’s face. 

“She’s all mangled up,” the girl said, then turned away 
again, hiding her face in Ron’s shirt. He gave Jessica a 
distressed look. 

“Who? Who’s all mangled up?” Jessica said slowly, 
searching her mind for what they might be talking about. 
“Was something broken? Did you break one of them?” she 
asked hopefully. The little kids all began to sniffle again, and 
she ground her teeth. “What is it?” Jessica nearly snapped, 
but none of them seemed to notice her tone. 

“It’s not broken,” Ron said, his voice rising in panic, and 
then the floor shook with a resounding thud. Alanna 
grabbed Jessica around the waist, and Ron huddled closer, 
pulling Lisa with him. The little blond boy stayed where he 
was, frozen in place with a look of terror. There was another 
thud, this time louder, then the pounding continued over 
and over, coming closer. Jessica could hear it moving in the 
hall, reverberating deep in her chest as whatever it was 
came thundering toward the door outside. She heard wood 


cracking, and clutched the children’s shoulders as 
something struck the wall three times in quick succession, 
rocking them all back. There was a final, clattering noise 
that seemed to come from all around. 

“What is that?” Jessica whispered, searching the walls 
and ceiling, unable to make sense of the noises. Then 
everything fell silent. They waited. Jessica listened, counting 
to ten, then twenty, and the sound did not come again. She 
counted to thirty, then sixty. / have to do something. She 
straightened, carefully extracting herself from Alanna’s 
grasp. “Wait here,” she whispered. She crept toward the 
door, stepping as softly as she could; as she moved she 
could feel their eyes on her. The door was ordinary-looking, 
a wooden door with a brass knob—the kind you’d see ona 
closet. Jessica took a quick, deep breath, then stretched out 
her arm to take the knob. 

Before she could touch it, the knob turned, and the door 
began to slide open. Jessica held her breath, and took 
steady steps backward, desperately wanting to rejoin the 
group, even if they were just children. At first, Jessica saw 
only pink and white, the shapes indistinct, then her mind 
made sense of it: slowly, the enormous head of a garishly 
painted fox peered into the room. 

Foxy? Jessica thought, hazily taking in pointed pink ears 
and yellow eyes. Its cheeks were painted with red circles, 
like the animatronic girl’s had been. The creature looked at 
her for a long moment, and she stared back, unable to 
remember how to move her feet, and then the fox head 
retreated, and all the children screamed. Something new 
sprang violently into the room, a long and segmented metal 
limb like a spider’s leg. It braced against the floor just as a 
second metal leg violently invaded the space, embedding 


itself in the nearest wall. The children screamed, and Jessica 
raced toward them, looking frantically for a way out. The 
room was filling with arms and legs, extended and 
contorted, some with hands, others without. Jessica 
searched for a place to run through the steadily thickening 
mass of legs. Her eyes met the yellow eyes of the fox head, 
now suspended in the air by rods and beams. But there was 
another set of eyes as well. Does it have two heads? The 
unskinned metal skull lowered itself; it was connected to the 
mass above by cables and cords, and seemed to move of its 
own will. 

One high-pitched scream rose above the others, a blood- 
curdling wail. “LISA!” Ron cried, and Jessica saw that the 
thing had one hand on the little girl’s arm and was pulling 
her toward it. The skinless metal head studied her, then 
swiveled and swung on its cables to the others, taking an 
aggressive stance toward them as the metal limbs 
entangled the little girl and pulled her toward the door. 

“NO!” Jessica cried, climbing through the snares of metal 
coils and grabbing Lisa’s tiny hand. A violent surge threw 
her back, but she held fast to whatever she had managed to 
grasp, letting go only as she hit the floor. She struggled for 
air as she got to her feet, but the creature had already 
retreated through the doorway and disappeared. Jessica 
whirled, looking frantically to the children, and her heart 
nearly burst with relief: Lisa was on the ground beside her, 
and Ron and Alanna were helping her up. Jessica rushed to 
them. “It’s okay,” she whispered, then the momentary relief 
vanished. The blond boy, the one who might have been 
Jacob, was gone. 

“1 couldn’t hold on to him,” Alanna wailed, as if reading 
Jessica’s mind. 


Jessica looked to the door in despair, but quickly steadied 
herself. “We'll get him back,” Jessica said, because it was all 
she could think of to say. She glanced around helplessly, 
then froze as the doorknob slowly began to turn again. 
“Stay here,” Jessica said in a low voice, and she moved 
quickly to the door. She stood to the side, bracing herself to 
jump on whatever came through. This is your plan? 

The door opened, and Jessica screamed and lunged into 
the doorway, as though ready to karate-chop whatever was 
coming through. 

Carlton and Marla jumped back with startled expressions, 
and Jessica stared for a moment, then seized Carlton in a 
hug, holding tight to his shoulders as if he could stop her 
from shaking. 

“Jessica?” Marla said, spotting the children. Jessica 
pushed Carlton away. 

“Something got one of the kids, a little boy,” she said in 
a rush. “I didn’t see where it went.” 

Marla was already beside the children, checking them for 
injury. “We have to get them out,” she said. 

“Oh, really, Marla? Is that what we should be doing? Here 
| was painting my nails,” Jessica said crisply. Carlton reached 
for his ear and pulled something out. 

“Here, take this,” he said. 

“What? Ew.” Jessica made a face instinctively, then 
peered at the tiny device. “Is that a hearing aid?” 

“Not exactly. It makes you invisible to the animatronics. 
You and Marla take these kids out, I’ll find the other kid they 
took.” 

“How does it—?” Jessica took the device and studied it. “| 
have to put it in my ear?” 

“Yes! You have to put it in your ear! I'll explain later.” 


“But, are your ears even clean?” She leaned in, peering 
suspiciously at Carlton’s ear. Marla grabbed the earpiece out 
of her hand and shoved it into Jessica’s ear. 

“OW!” Jessica cried. 

Marla turned back to the kids. “Shouldn’t we give them 
to the children, instead?” 

“There are only two earpieces, and you can both protect 
them better if you’re invisible, right?” Carlton said irritably. 

“What if Jess and | stay here with the kids, and you take 
one out at a time, wearing the earpieces?” Marla pressed. 
Jessica shook her head immediately. 

“And what if that thing comes back and kills us all while 
we’re waiting for Carlton to take his sweet time? We have to 
make a break for it, Marla, it’s the only way.” 

They were all quiet for a moment. Carlton looked from 
Jessica to Marla and back. 

“Right? Now, give me thirty seconds to get away from 
here, that way if something chases me, | can draw them 
away from you. Anything | should know?” Carlton paused at 
the door. 

“Afton’s still alive,” Jessica said, and he nodded. 

“This ends today,” he said quietly. “One way or another. 
Not one more child dies because of that psychopath. | owe 
that much to Michael.” 

Jessica bit her lip. “We all do,” she said. 

He forced a smile. “Good luck.” 

“Good luck,” she echoed. 

“Right.” Carlton clenched his jaw, then squared his 
shoulders and held the door open, poised to exit. “This was 
my idea?” he muttered, then closed the door behind him. 

“Marla, do you know the way out?” Jessica asked, 
surprised to hear her own voice come out clear and steady. 


Marla nodded, standing up. 

“We came in the back way. But | think if we go back down 
that hall, we can get out into the main dining room; should 
be easy to get out from there, right?” 

“You'd think so,” Jessica muttered with an edge. 

Marla gave her a level look. “You got something better?” 

“No. | don’t.” Jessica turned to the three remaining 
children, who were watching them with wide eyes. “We 
don’t have to get far,” she said, searching for scraps of hope 
to offer them. “I need you to stay together, and stay with 
me and Marla. If you can do that, we’ll all be okay.” They 
looked at her like they knew she was lying, but no one said 
a word. 

Jessica opened the door again carefully. The hallway 
outside the little room was dark, but Marla led them onward 
as if she really did know where they were headed. She held 
a large, battered flashlight out in front of her. She looked 
poised to turn it on but refrained from doing so, seemingly 
afraid of attracting more unwanted attention. Jessica’s eyes 
adjusted to the dim light as she took up the rear, alert to the 
Slightest sign of danger. 

They came to aT in the hall, and Marla turned without 
hesitation. A few yards ahead there was light: strings of 
Small, bare bulbs lit the way at intervals, and the next fork 
in the hall was visible. We’re getting closer, Jessica thought, 
as they moved cautiously onward. 

A soft popping noise caught Jessica’s attention overhead, 
and she froze. “Marla,” she hissed, and Marla and the 
children ahead stopped and turned around. Marla pointed 
up with a worried expression, and Jessica looked up to see 
that some of the bulbs over her head had gone out, their 


glass made opaque with a sooty film. “Just old lights,” 
Jessica breathed. 

A light above Marla burst and died, and all of them 
jumped. Alanna clapped both hands over her mouth, and 
Ron put a hand on Lisa’s shoulder. “Can we go faster?” Lisa 
whispered. All at once, the rest of the light bulbs flickered 
and clattered. Jessica held her breath: they stayed on, 
preserving the little light, but overhead something hollow 
and metallic rattled in the ceiling. 

Marla’s face went pale. “Keep moving,” she said tightly. 
Jessica gave a sharp nod. The rattling noise kept pace, 
sometimes seeming to come from above them, and 
sometimes from the dark corners just out of view, scraping 
and clattering in a vent or crawl space. Lisa whimpered; the 
older children’s faces were stony, but Jessica could see the 
glimmer of tears on their cheeks. Suddenly, Marla stopped 
Short, and Jessica almost bumped into Ron. “What?” she 
hissed, then saw: a thin curtain of dust was falling from 
above. Jessica looked up, and saw the open duct directly 
above them. 

A multisegmented metal arm covered with springs and 
wires dropped down through the open duct, anchoring itself 
to the floor right next to Jessica’s foot. Everyone screamed. 
The arm retracted, then two more of the creature’s 
contorted limbs smashed down to the ground, raining down 
plaster and dust. “RUN!” Marla screamed. They took off 
down the hallway as the creature lowered its full form into 
the space, its shiny white fox head turning and smiling in 
their direction as they fled. Jessica glanced back, and the 
unskinned head dropped, too, grinning upside down, a red 
bow tie joining their necks ridiculously. Jessica fled; behind 
her came an enormous thud. Run faster! she wanted to 


scream, but the others were gasping for breath, already 
running at their full capacity. 

The children were pounding along as fast as they could, 
but Lisa, the smallest, began to fall behind. The creature 
shot past Jessica, reaching out for the little girl again, and 
Jessica grabbed her, yanking her up and out of reach just in 
time. It reared back to strike again, and Jessica clutched Lisa 
to her chest and ran on. They rounded a corner, and with a 
flare of hope Jessica saw that the hall was short, ending ina 
heavy set of double doors. Marla sped up, and Alanna and 
Ron did the same; Jessica kept her pace, staying at the back 
as Lisa clung to her with startling strength. 

Marla reached the end of the hall and slammed herself 
against the emergency bar, and the doors split open. They 
raced through, and Marla flung the door shut, grabbing a 
nearby sign post and jamming it through the door handles. 

“Keep running,” Jessica said with a fresh pump of 
adrenaline. She looked around: they were up against the 
wall, behind a popcorn popper and a cotton candy machine. 
She glanced back briefly at the sign Marla had barred the 
door with: LET’s EAT! it read in big, round letters. Ron leaned 
to the side, about to peek between the machines. “Hold on, 
she hissed, putting a hand on his shoulder. He drew back as 
if something had burned him. 

“It'll be okay,” Marla said, and Jessica marveled briefly 
that she sounded like she believed what she was saying. 
Behind them, something crashed against the door again, 
rattling the doorframe. Jessica waited, her eyes on the 
makeshift barricade, but nothing came. 

“We have to move slowly and quietly,” she whispered, 
and the three children nodded in unison. “Stay back,” 


” 


Jessica told them, and stepped out past the popcorn 
machine, alert to danger. She took a second to get her 
bearings: The walls of the dining room were lined with 
arcade games and children’s play areas, and on the far side 
of the room, blissfully, were the wide glass doors of the 
entrance. She motioned the others forward; the children, 
huddled together, followed her into the open room with 
Marla close behind. 

“Hurry,” she urged, and Marla nodded, taking Lisa’s hand 
as Alanna and Ron followed behind her, their faces pinched 
with exhaustion. Suddenly, Alanna screamed, and Jessica 
jumped. “What? What is it?” The girl was pointing ata 
jungle gym a few feet away, where two toddlers, too small 
to climb the bars, were nonetheless doing so. 

“It’s okay, they’re just toys,” Marla said, looking back at 
Jessica with a frazzled expression. “We saw them on the way 
in.” 

Alanna screamed again, and ran to Jessica, grabbing on 
to her waist. “It bit me!” 

“What?” Jessica looked down: Alanna’s ankle was 
bleeding, though not badly, and a few feet away was 
another crawling, robotic child. 

“Jessica!” Marla screamed, touching the device in her ear 
nervously. “It can’t see us, but it can see them.” As she 
spoke, the two other robotic children on the monkey bars 
lowered themselves unsteadily to the ground and began to 
crawl straight toward Lisa and Ron; they backed away, and 
a fourth appeared, boxing them in. Marla scooped up Lisa 
and Alanna and tried to hold them away from harm. 
“Jessica!” Marla screamed. “Help!” 

“It bit me,” Alanna repeated, panic in her voice, and the 
children clung together as the crawlers came closer, a slow 


march of determined toddlers with the black eyes of insects. 
“They can’t see us,” Jessica said with determination, darting 
forward and grabbing the nearest robot baby. It was heavier 
than it looked. Jessica held it out from her body. It was 
facing away from her, and she held on tight as it continued 
its crawling movements in the air, steadily putting its hands 
and feet into position, one after the other. She glanced 
around, then spotted the ball pit: at least four or five feet 
deep. Jessica threw the crawler down into the colorful balls 
as hard as she could, and it landed, half-buried, on its side, 
still repeating its motions, and slowly sank out of sight. 

“Marla, come on!” she shouted. Marla set down Lisa and 
Alanna beside Ron, then turned her attention to the baby 
crawling toward them. Her hands were shaking, like she was 
preparing to pick up a giant cockroach. “Marla!” Jessica 
shrieked. Marla screamed and shook her hands in the air, 
and the baby suddenly charged forward, clawing at the 
ground and biting at the children’s feet. Lisa cried and fell to 
the ground, and the heavy creature grabbed at her legs as it 
crawled up on top of her. Marla bolted forward with a blood- 
curdling scream and yanked the metal crawler off the little 
girl. Marla cried out again as she spun and threw the 
creature through the air. It missed Jessica’s head by an inch, 
Slammed into the net canopy above the ball pit, and 
dropped down into it, sinking out of sight. 

“You almost hit me!” Jessica had barely spoken the words 
when the third and final robot baby flew through the air and 
landed at her feet with a resounding bang. Marla let herself 
fall to the ground, breathing heavily, her eyes wide with 
panicked fury. Jessica stared down at the creature as it 
locked its sights on the children again. “Oh, no you don’t.” 
Jessica picked it up just as it started to crawl. She held it 


over the pit and it turned its head around completely to face 
her with its ant-like eyes. Its little rosebud mouth opened, 
flashing two rows of pointy predator’s teeth, then snapped 
shut, chomping the air. Jessica shuddered and dropped it, 
watching with grim fascination as it churned its arms and 
legs, digging itself deeper into the pit. 

“Jessica!” Marla cried, and she spun around. Lights had 
come on behind them, illuminating a large show stage with 
a bright purple curtain as its backdrop. On the stage, and in 
the spotlight, was a glossy and white Foxy animatronic, its 
mouth open and arms wide, ready to perform for a cheering 
crowd. The Fox looked down at them with delight. 

“Was that there a second ago?” Jessica whispered. 
Suddenly, the fox’s body began cracking apart: metal 
plates split away from the center of its torso, from its arms 
and legs, lifting out, splitting again and folding back, leaving 

only its canine head untouched, grinning maniacally as its 
body was horribly transformed. Jessica ran to the children as 
all at once, tentacle-like metal limbs erupted from what had 
been Foxy, and the mutilated skeleton creature stretched 
out into its new, semi-arachnid form. 

“Get them out!” Jessica cried. Alanna and Ron were 
frozen to the spot, staring, and Marla slapped their cheeks 
lightly. Ron snatched up Lisa’s hand, and together they all 
ran for the front door. 

“Jessica!” Marla cried as they reached the door. “We 
can’t let it get out!” The creature was on top of the monkey 
bars now, elongating itself to terrifying proportions as if 
showing off its tangled metal spines. 

“Get them out!” Jessica shouted again, pushing away 
from them, then turning her attention back to the mangled 
pink-and-white fox. The thing began to slowly dismount the 


monkey bars, its limbs slipping over and around one 
another, changing its shape with every step it took. Its 
foxlike face, and its vaguely human one, were both intent on 
the children, the heads angled slightly toward each other so 
that each of its eyes could focus. Jessica took a deep breath, 
then pulled the earpiece out of her ear, struggling to steady 
her hands long enough to slip it into her pocket. “Over 
here!” she screamed as loudly as she could, her throat 
going raw, and the canine head ducked under the other 
neck, its eye rolling around to fix on her. “Yeah, over here!” 
Jessica cried, her voice hoarse, and the thing came down 
from the monkey bars with menacing grace and began to 
slink toward her. She glanced around. Should have thought 
this through. At the door, she could see Marla bracing it 
open and shooing the children through, one at a time, then 
looking back to Jessica. 

Jessica nodded her head and waved Marla away. She 
grabbed a folding chair from a nearby table and hefted it 
over her head, then flung it at the creature. It landed with a 
clatter on the floor, missing the thing entirely. The fox head 
cocked to the side, its mouth hanging open to show all of its 
teeth, then it lurched forward, its metal appendages 
banging against the ground. Jessica turned and ran. 

She looked around wildly for an escape as she darted 
through the mass of tables at the center of the room; she 
shoved over a table behind her, but the thing just climbed 
over it like it was flat ground. Jessica sped up. The creature 
was right behind her, the fox head snapping its jaws as the 
unskinned skull grinned ghoulishly from its swing. She raced 
back the way they had come, ducking between the cotton 
candy machine and the popcorn cart. The sign blocking the 


doors was still in place, and she flung it away and yanked 
the door handle. It rattled in place, but still wouldn’t open. 

Something crashed behind her, and Jessica spun around 
to see the popcorn cart knocked over, popcorn strewn 
across the black-and-white floor tiles. The creature stretched 
out a limb and pushed the cotton candy machine 
experimentally; it rocked but did not fall, then another limb 
shot out. It hit Jessica’s leg with a smack, and she stumbled 
back against the door, an involuntary shout of pain blurting 
from her mouth. The fox and the unskinned head looked at 
each other, the head bouncing on its cables, then in unison 
they turned their eyes on her as the creature undulated its 
limbs, displaying their full extension. Jessica felt in her 
pocket for the earpiece, but couldn’t find it. It must have 
fallen out while she was running: she darted her eyes from 
side to side, afraid to move even her head. She was 
cornered, caught between the wall and a children’s climbing 
set: there was no way past the thing. 

All at once the creature seized the cotton candy machine 
with three of its limbs, crushing it; shattering glass sprayed 
in all directions as it carelessly flung the machine aside. 
Jessica shielded her face, turning away, and as the machine 
cracked the floor tiles behind her, she saw it: the red-and- 
yellow bars of the playset nearby led high above the room 
below, where a colorful pipe maze began, bolted tight to the 
ceiling, and disappearing into a circular hole in the wall and 
into the next room. That’s my way out. 

Jessica set her foot on the bottom rung of the playset and 
started to climb as fast as she could. Below her came a 
wrenching noise, and she glanced down to see the creature 
tearing up the playset, the unskinned head swinging and 
bobbing gleefully. It reached up and tore out the rung below 


her, and she climbed faster, hurling her upper body into the 
tube just as one of the creature’s hands grasped the last 
piece of the playset. Jessica scrabbled for a handhold, at last 
managing to pull her full body inside the tube. She crawled 
as fast as she could, the pipe shaking with every movement, 
then stopped to look down. Although some of the plastic 
tunnel was bolted to the ceiling, there were large portions 
that were not. This was made for kids, not me. Jessica 
rocked herself carefully, and the section of plastic below her 
rocked as well, the plastic segments creaking at the seams. 
Jessica shivered. Slow and steady. She checked her hands 
and knees, making sure they were safely in place, then 
started forward again. 

She was in a narrow, unadorned tube, hovering above an 
empty hallway, lit by a single, exposed florescent light that 
hummed as it flickered. The hum of the florescent light 
seemed to grow louder as she made her way cautiously 
along the fragile plastic flooring, filling her ears almost 
painfully, as if she had gone deep underground. She worked 
her jaw open and shut, trying to clear the sensation, but the 
noise persisted. When she reached the segment of tubing 
that went into the wall above the door, she hesitated, trying 
to see inside, but there was only darkness. Jessica took a 
deep breath, and carefully crossed into the next room. 

Silence fell: the humming noise was blissfully gone. The 
only light was behind her, and bizarrely it did not penetrate 
into the room, as if it were somehow being filtered out. She 
looked back and saw the circle of light where she had come, 
but everything else was in darkness. Jessica blinked, waiting 
for her eyes to adjust, but all she saw was black. Okay, then. 
She shuffled slowly forward, feeling carefully and sliding her 
knees along the support beams that ran along sections of 


the tunnel. After a few minutes, she came to a turn, 
bumping her head gently on the plastic, and she felt her 
way around it with a vague sense of accomplishment. 

A point of orange light appeared below her, and she 
Startled, her hand slipping off the support beam and rattling 
the plastic. She caught her balance, her heart racing, and a 
pair of green lights appeared, a few feet away from the first 
one. They vanished, then reappeared, and another pair, 
purple, sprang out of the darkness beside them, and this 
time Jessica saw the dark pinpoint at the center of each 
circle. Jessica tensed with an awful recognition, as more and 
more sets of colored lights appeared: Eyes. They’re eyes. 
The room below was slowly filling with sets of eyes, until it 
seemed impossible that so many creatures could fit into the 
Space; they all stared upward, unblinking at Jessica. She 
moved slowly forward, her hands shaking as they found 
their way along the beams, and the eyes followed her as 
she went. Don’t look down. 

Jessica set her gaze on the darkness in front of her and 
shuffled on and on for what felt like ages; each time she 
glanced down there were more pairs and pairs of watchful 
eyes, all of them rapt on her progress. Jessica shivered. She 
moved faster, still feeling carefully before she slid her hands 
and knees along, then the tube curved slightly, and a circle 
of dim light came into view. Jessica crawled for it as fast as 
she dared, the tube swaying precariously as she moved. She 
crawled through the hole and turned back: the room was in 
darkness again; all the eyes had vanished. 

Jessica shuddered, revolted, then looked down at the 
room she now hovered above. The light was dim and 
unsteady, flashing strange colors at intervals, but she could 
see clearly. Peering down, Jessica saw that it was coming 


from the carnival games that filled the room, some flickering 
noiselessly and others giving steady light in every hue. She 
took a deep breath and looked ahead, trying to see where 
the tube led. / rea//y hope there’s another way out, she 
thought, and started crawling again. The plastic tubing 
rattled as she went, the only noise in the dark room. Jessica 
swallowed; as the adrenaline waned, she was beginning to 
remember how much she hated enclosed spaces. Just keep 
moving. She reached a split in the tubing: one way snaked 
around the perimeter of the room, the other through 
another wall, into the pipe maze bolted to the ceiling of the 
next room. She scanned the room, then made her choice. 
She took the turn, taking the tunnel that fed through the 
neatly cut hole in the wall, and found herself back in the 
main dining room. 

She paused and listened. There was no sound of 
movement in the dining room, and she craned her neck to 
look down through one of the large plastic panes, searching 
the area: the creature was nowhere to be seen. She had not 
noticed the play pipes that covered the ceiling before 
climbing up into them, but now she saw the extent of them, 
with no end in sight, and no way down. The playset she had 
climbed to enter the tunnels was utterly destroyed. How am 
| going to get out? She cast her eyes helplessly over the 
maze, tracing the paths she could take, and suddenly she 
Saw it: the ball pit where she had thrown the baby crawlers 
was across the room, and it had a canopy made of climbing 
rope that stretched fifteen or twenty feet above the floor. 
The tube went directly over it. Jessica took a deep breath 
and crawled farther out into the room, bracing herself. She 
made it to the first turning point, and suddenly the pipe 
shook. She paused, but the structure shook again, and 


again. The light was being obscured from below her, and 
Jessica looked down. 

The unskinned skull grinned up at her with yellow eyes, 
suspended below as if out of nowhere. The head swiveled 
sideways and elevated up and over the plastic tunnel. 
Jessica looked up in dread, and saw the body of the creature 
right above her, its limbs wrapped around the tube like a 
monstrous squid seizing a ship. She stifled a scream, and 
her heart skipped as she fought not to hyperventilate. The 
fox head lowered to eye level and snapped beside her, and 
she screamed and shied away; her hand hit the plastic floor 
between the support beams and the segment fell straight 
down. Jessica clamored back before falling with it, and 
quickly took a corner, heading off to a new direction. The fox 
head swooped upward in a blur and vanished. 

Jessica crawled in a straight line, keeping her eyes fixed 
ahead. The structure continued to shake, and she could 
hear plastic breaking behind her, as well as large segments 
of the pipe maze crashing to the ground. Soon she reached 
the ball pit, and she stared down at the canopy of ropes 
through the bottom of the tube, hesitating. Now what? The 
structure shook again, but this time it was different. This 
time it trembled as though someone, or something, were in 
the maze with her. The entirety of the structure swayed and 
rocked on the bolts it hung from. Jessica kicked out the 
plastic below her, bracing herself on the sides of the tube as 
she looked down. Something moved in the pit below: three 
of the crawlers’ heads were above the surface, staring up at 
her disembodied with blank eyes. In unison, they snapped 
their little jaws, and she startled, hitting her head on the top 
of the plastic tube. “Stupid babies,” she muttered. When 
she looked down again, they were back in motion, 


Swimming through the balls and snapping, apparently at 
random. Jessica shivered and froze, suddenly paralyzed at 
the next step of her plan. For a moment, she prayed that it 
wasn’t too late to just stay silent, and wait for danger to 
pass. 

The structure trembled again, this time over and over in 
rapid succession. A Spiral of shimmering metal flew through 
the tunnel, then she saw its gleaming fox’s head, its mouth 
open in an impossible smile. Jessica screamed and fell 
sideways through the hole, landing heavily on the rope 
canopy. It sank inward, giving her a split second before she 
began to slip downward. 

She grabbed wildly at the net, the ropes burning her 
hands and entangling her feet, then she got her footing, and 
scrambled back up the slope to the top, wrapping her hands 
around the metal support bar. She watched the hole in the 
bottom of the pipe that she had fallen through, expecting 
something to come out, but nothing did. There was motion 
in the pipes, barely visible through the thick foggy plastic. 
Jessica searched in panic, trying to locate the creature, but 
there was movement everywhere: every pipe seemed to be 
crawling with life. Then she realized, all of the movement 
was flowing in the same direction. Jessica followed the flow 
with her eyes, through pipe after pipe, all the way up toa 
plastic end cap just above her. With a crash, the end cap 
burst out of place, and bolts rained down from the sky, 
hitting Jessica on the head. The fox head beamed down at 
her. More of its body pushed its way through, more and 
more limbs emerging as it balanced itself delicately on the 
edge of the pipe like a cat preparing to pounce on a mouse. 

Something fell out of Jessica’s pocket with a ding. It was 
the earpiece, which must have been wedged into her other 


pocket. Jessica held steady, violently fumbling to retrieve 
the earpiece. The fox head craned sideways as the last 
piece of the monster exited the pipe and joined the rest of 
the metal mass, perched like a vulture on the rickety 
infrastructure of the pipes. 

Finally, the fox lunged. 

Jessica crammed the earpiece into her ear and jumped, 
and the creature slammed into the netting where she had 
been, its limbs shooting through the spaces in the net. 
Jessica landed on her back on the top of an arcade cabinet, 
then fell to the floor below with a thud, the wind knocked 
out of her, and she wheezed. The creature struggled to free 
itself from the net. The limbs writhed, then the whole body 
sank down with the net, tearing it off the frame as it went. 
The creature was stuck, its limbs tangled in the mesh. It 
thrashed and flailed, and its long, snakelike appendages 
lashed through the air. The net rocked back and forth, 
straining in its bonds, then gave way in an instant. The thing 
dropped straight down into the pit, sending colorful plastic 
balls splashing over the sides of the pit. It twisted 
frantically, still tangled in the torn netting, then suddenly it 
began to twitch. Jessica watched, wide-eyed, as the bound 
creature slowly sank into the ball pit with a sound like metal 
grinding metal; after a moment it vanished entirely, though 
the balls boiled up frenziedly as the gnashing sound 
continued. Briefly, she caught a glimpse of a black-eyed 
crawler, chewing contentedly. She drew in a shaky breath, 
then ran for the front entrance. Jessica burst out through the 
double door and into the cool night air, and swayed on her 
feet. 

“Are you all right?” Marla asked with alarm. 


“I’m fine.” Jessica looked at each of the children, 
confirming that they were all there, all safe. Except one. 
Carlton, do you have him? She forced herself to smile. “So, 
who wants to visit a police station?” 

Carlton crept quickly down the hall, scanning the walls and 
floor for signs of struggle—of anything that would indicate 
something had passed through. There was another door a 
little way down the hall, and he paused outside it, carefully 
turning the knob while staying outside the frame. Bracing 
himself, he pushed the door in, and waited. Nothing came 
out and he cautiously peered inside: the room was 
completely empty. “Calm before the storm?” he whispered 
to himself, and shut the door. 

When he reached the T in the hall he paused. Where are 
you, kid? He closed his eyes, listening. There was nothing, 
and then, a muffled scraping came from the wall behind 
him, back the way he and Marla had come. Carlton went 
toward it, and put his ear to the wall. The rustling continued. 
It was an odd sound he could not quite pinpoint, but it 
sounded like someone moving. He stepped back, examining 
the wall: It was plain, painted beige, with a large, silver air 
vent near the baseboard, about three feet high and almost 
as wide. That’s strange ... Carlton knelt down in front of the 
vent and turned on his flashlight—which worked, somewhat 
impressively, after its extended use as a blunt instrument. 
He turned the beam on the vent, and squinted, trying to see 
inside, but the slats were too close together to make out 
anything. 


A faint sound came from somewhere deep inside; it was 
indistinct, but it was unmistakably a voice. Carlton tugged 
at the grate with his fingernails, and it moved easily; he 
pulled the whole thing out, revealing a dark tunnel about 
four feet high. He shone his flashlight inside: The walls were 
concrete, painted red on one side and blue on the other in 
faded colors. Incomprehensible words were scribbled on 
them in crayon, and the yellow linoleum floor was scuffed 
with black sneaker marks, scratched, and turning up at the 
edges. “This place /s brand-new, right?” Carlton muttered as 
he crouched down and crawled inside, keeping the light 
ahead of him. It was unsettling to think of someone carefully 
laying down a new floor, then marking it with deliberate 
signs of wear; adult hands mimicking children’s painstaking 
handwriting and simple drawings. He cast the light around: 
on the red wall there was a drawing of a house and stick 
figures; underneath someone had written My House with the 
e drawn backward. The sound of the voice came again, 
echoing faintly through the tunnel ahead, and Carlton 
crawled forward awkwardly with the flashlight in one hand. 

The wall color changed every few feet, cycling through 
the rainbow at random, with childlike graffiti soaced 
unevenly all along the way. He came to what he thought 
was an opening to a new tunnel, but when he turned the 
light toward it, he saw that it was only a cubbyhole, small 
enough for a child to squeeze into. In the corner of it was a 
little blue sneaker, the laces untied, and Carlton swallowed. 
What is this place? 

His flashlight lit on a silently screaming face, and Carlton 
jumped back, dropping the light. He snatched it up again, 
his heart thumping, and shone it on the figure: it was a jack- 
in-the-box stuck in its “surprise” position: a white-faced 


clown, its mouth gaping in perpetual laughter. “This isn’t a 
vent,” Carlton whispered, letting the light leave the painted 
face and continue down the colorful hall littered with hiding 
Spaces and scuff marks. “This is part of the play area.” 

The light fixed on a rainbow stretching above one of the 
hiding Spaces. HIDE-AND-SEEK HALLWAY, it read. “This can’t be 
good.” Carlton winced. The child’s voice echoed again, this 
time a little louder, and he shook off the eerie sensation. /’m 
coming, kid, he promised silently. 

He rounded a corner, but stopped short: there was an 
animatronic baby in a cubbyhole, motionless, laying on its 
back. Carlton’s elbows and knees trembled. Please don’t 
move. 

Black, insect-like eyes stared blankly at him from a 
sweet, plastic face; the crawler did not move, apparently 
deactivated. He backed away cautiously, and turned his 
light on the path ahead; he was approaching a turn, but 
there was still no sign of an exit. He crawled on, passing 
stick figures and houses that were beginning to look 
suspiciously repetitive. 

“| s-ee you...” 

Carlton whirled around. There was nothing in sight but a 
closed door. It was the size of the other cubbyholes, child- 
height, with a small, heart-shaped window near the top. As 
he passed his light over the little door, something glinted 
through the heart-shaped window. Carlton stiffened, but 
before he could think to move, the door broke off its hinges 
as Freddy crawled forcefully out, a maniacal grin on his 
shiny purple-and-white face as he unfolded from the 
cramped space he had stuffed himself into. Carlton crawled 
backward frantically, and Freddy matched his motions, 


keeping a distance of inches between them. Carlton glanced 
around, then turned and crawled as fast as he could down 
the tunnel, his knees and hands slamming into the floor 
painfully as he raced to get away. He glanced back: Freddy 
was crawling behind him, his mechanical arms and legs 
thundering faster than Carlton could hope to escape. He 
rounded a corner, and Freddy caught his foot, the iron 
fingers digging into his heel. Carlton kicked with his other 
foot, wresting himself free, and got to his feet and started to 
run, hunched down to half his height and scraping the 
ceiling with his back. From behind, he could hear the sound 
of Freddy bearing down on him, his hands and knees 
pounding the floor with vibrating force. 

Carlton turned another corner, and relief surged through 
him: there was a vent along the tunnel, an actua/ vent that 
led to a large room. Carlton kicked it out without hesitation 
and scurried through to the room on the other side. 

The room was enormous, seemingly designed to house a 
single, giant carnival ride: it was a ring of seats set on an 
angle, held together by huge metal arms on a Spiral, a 
terrifying variation on the merry-go-round that would whip 
around at high speed while tilting nauseatingly up and 
down. On the far side of it was a door marked exit. Before 
Carlton could run for the door, Freddy burst out of the 
tunnel, climbing to his feet, his eyes sickeningly reflective in 
the dark. 

“| see you so Clearly now,” said the speaker in Freddy’s 
chest. 

Carlton turned to run, then smacked into the carnival 
ride, biting his lip and drawing blood. 


He turned back just in time to see Freddy lunge at him, 
and Carlton ducked under the ride, the blow just missing 
him and hitting the metal side of the tilted merry-go-round. 
The sound rang out in the vast, empty room, and he 
shuddered, then leaped back as another blow hit the ride 
above him, reverberating so hard it rattled his teeth. Carlton 
looked up: the metal had bowed out above his head, caving 
to Freddy’s strength. 

“You can’t escape ...” 

Carlton scrambled away, tripping over the heavy steel 
beams that undergirded the ride, bolting it to the ground. 
Freddy’s shiny purple-and-white calves stalked him calmly, 
keeping pace with him along the perimeter of the ride as 
Carlton ducked under heavy cables and mysterious, 
frightening-looking gears. 

“I’ve alm-ost got you ...” Freddy announced. 

“Not yet,” Carlton muttered as he carefully untangled his 
foot from the heavy wire that had ensnared him. He craned 
his neck, trying to see the room around him: There was no 
way he could get past Freddy, and even if he did, he would 
pursue him relentlessly. Carlton was backed up against the 
tilted end of the ride, and up against the control platform. 
As he craned his head upward he could see a large on/off 
lever, which was almost in reach. 

“Nowhere else to run...” 

Carlton waited for Freddy to make his way deeper under 
the ride, pressing and contorting his body to get at Carlton 
between the beams. Carlton squeezed out from under the 
ride and hoisted himself just high enough to pull the lever 
and activate the ride, then dropped to the ground and 
covered his head. Freddy reached for him, but the ride tilted 
abruptly. 


Carlton saw Freddy jerk about, wrenched by the moving 
parts, until the ride jolted hard. Carlton clutched his head as 
his ears rang with the impact, a growing shriek of tearing 
metal and grating gears as the ride slowed, wobbling 
unsteadily on its axis. Carlton didn’t move: from where he 
had landed he could see the apparatus in motion, shredding 
through the body of what had been Freddy as the machine 
ground on inexorably through its routine. Scraps of purple 
appeared and vanished, then fell to the floor, spat out by 
the machine. A yellow eyeball appeared in a space above 
two gears, and Carlton watched with shocked fascination as 
the rest of the precariously balanced body was pulverized 
by the alternating beams, then dropped to the ground in 
several distinct masses. 

The machine screeched ear-splittingly, then slowed and 
sputtered to a dead stop. Carlton didn’t move for a moment. 
He got to his feet and cautiously moved away from the 
apparatus, carefully avoiding the littered scraps of metal 
and plastic on the ground. He didn’t dare climb under the 
thing again, but he prodded it gently with his toe, then 
yanked his foot back as something dropped out. 

Half of Freddy’s head, one-eyed and still grinning 
insanely, fell out of the machine near Carlton, spun partially 
on the ground, then stopped moving, and its single eye 
flickered on, then sputtered and died. The speaker in the 
now-smashed chest piece, laying armless and legless 
nearby, crackled with static, then spoke, “Thanks for 
playing; come again soon!” The voice trailed away and went 
silent. 

In the distance, the child’s scream came again, and 
Carlton was startled back to himself. 


“Hang on, kid,” he whispered, and headed grimly for the 
door. 





Charlie’s duplicate stared back at her, looking stunned for 
an instant, then Charlie watched her own face curve into a 
bright, cruel smile. The other Charlie didn’t move, and 
Charlie’s fear receded as she watched this strange imitation 
of herself, astonished. That’s my face. Charlie reached up 
and touched her own cheek, and the other girl imitated her; 
Charlie tilted her head to the side, and the girl mirrored her 
movement—Charlie could not tell if she was being mocked, 
or if the other girl was simply as entranced as she was. The 
duplicate was a little taller than Charlie, and Charlie flicked 
her eyes to the girl’s feet: her black combat boots had 
heels. She was wearing a red V-neck shirt and a short black 
Skirt, and her hair was long and hung in shiny waves—a look 
Charlie had given up even attempting halfway through ninth 
grade. She looked polished; confident in her stance. She 


looked the way Charlie wished she could be: some version 
of herself that had figured out curling irons, and 
sophistication, and taking up space in the world without 
apology. 

“What are you?” Charlie whispered, mesmerized. 

“Come on,” the other Charlie said, holding out her hand, 
and Charlie started to reach out to her, then stopped 
herself, yanking her hand away. She shrank away, stumbling 
back across the hall and her duplicate closed the distance 
between them, leaning in so close Charlie should have felt 
her breathing. A long moment passed, but the other Charlie 
did not draw breath. “You need to come with me,” she said. 
“Father wants us to come home.” Charlie startled at the 
phrase. 

“My father is dead,” she said. She pressed back against 
the wall, as far from the girl’s face as she could get. 

“Well, would you like to have a live one?” the other 
Charlie asked, with a mocking edge. 

“There is nothing that you can give me, and certainly not 
that,” Charlie said shakily, inching backward into the 
storage room; the duplicate followed her step for step. 
Charlie glanced past the duplicate and into the open 
bedroom door; John emerged into the hallway, leaning 
heavily on the doorframe and gripping his side. 

“Are you Okay, Charlie?” he asked in a low, steady voice. 

“Oh, I’m just fine, John!” Charlie’s duplicate said 
cheerfully. 

“Charlie?” John repeated, ignoring her. Charlie nodded, 
not daring to take her eyes off the imposter. 

“She says Father wants us to come home,” Charlie said. 

John stepped up behind the other Charlie. 


“Father? Would that be William Afton?” John demanded. 
He took a few sprinted steps and grabbed a lamp by its 
base, raising it for attack. The other Charlie smiled again, 
then swiftly raised her arm and backhanded John across the 
face. He dropped the lamp and staggered backward, 
catching himself against the wall, and the duplicate grabbed 
for Charlie’s hand. Charlie ducked away, running for the 
hallway with the girl on her heels. 

“Hey! That was just round one!” John shouted, beckoning 
his assailant to come back. He grabbed the duplicate girl’s 
arm, yanking her back toward him and away from where 
Charlie had run. The duplicate allowed John to hold her 
close, not resisting. John was washed with fear as he stood 
eye-to-eye with the imposter. Now what do | do? 

“Just like by the old oak tree when we were little, John,” 
the duplicate whispered. She pulled him close and pressed 
her lips against his. His eyes widened, and he tried to push 
her away, but he could not move. When she finally released 
him and pulled back, she was Charlie, his Charlie, and there 
was a high, painful ringing in his ears. He covered his ears, 
but the ringing increased exponentially, and for the few 
brief seconds before he collapsed to the ground, he saw her 
face morph into a thousand things. The room spun, and his 
head hit the ground with a crack. 

The girl smiled and glanced at Charlie, then drew back her 
foot and kicked John in the ribs, knocking him onto his side 
and against a heavy wooden trunk. Charlie ran toward him, 
but before she could reach him, the girl grabbed her hair, 
bringing tears to her eyes. The imposter pulled upward, 


lifting Charlie several inches off the ground, and then flung 
her aside. Charlie tried to regain her footing but tripped 
backward over a cardboard box and slammed hard into the 
opposite wall, knocking the wind out of her as John got 
warily to his feet. Charlie climbed to her knees. She dragged 
in heavy, grinding breaths, watching helplessly as the other 
Charlie strode toward John. 

He straightened, and without a pause, she punched him 
in the stomach. He doubled over, and before he could stand, 
She hit the back of his head with her fist, like it was a 
hammer and he was a nail. 

John fell forward, catching himself on his hands and 
knees, and scrambled up. He lunged again at the girl, 
catching her shoulder with his fist, but the blow glanced off 
her, and he yelped in pain, clutching his hand like it had hit 
something harder than flesh and bone. The imposter took 
him by the shoulders, lifting him off the ground, and carried 
him across the room, then pressed him against the wall. She 
released him and let him stand, turning to look at Charlie 
momentarily, then she placed her open palm against John’s 
chest. 

Suddenly, John began to gasp for breath, his face turning 
red. The imposter’s face remained unchanged, her open 
hand slowly pressing harder against his chest. “I can’t—” 
John gasped for air. “Can’t breathe.” He clutched at her arm 
with both hands, but it was no use as she continued to 
steadily press into him. John slowly began to slide up the 
wall, inch by inch, the pressure forcing his entire body 
upward. 

“Stop!” Charlie cried, but the other Charlie didn’t flinch. 
“Please!” Charlie scrambled to her feet and ran to John’s 
side, but the other Charlie snapped out her other arm and 


caught her by the neck without moving her hand from 
John’s chest. Her fingers closed on Charlie’s throat, closing 
off her windpipe as she lifted her up onto her toes. Charlie 
choked, kicking and gasping. The imposter held her there, 
looking expressionlessly from Charlie to John as she kept 
them both immobilized and struggling to breathe. 

“Okay,” Charlie wheezed. “I want to talk. Please,” she 
begged hoarsely. The imposter dropped them both. John fell 
motionless to the floor. “You’ve hurt him, let me help him.” 
Charlie coughed, pulling herself up. 

“You're so attached to something so ... easily broken,” 
she said with amusement. Charlie strained to see past her, 
anxiously watching John’s chest as it rose and fell. He’s 
alive. Charlie took a breath, then turned to face the girl who 
had her face. 

“What do you want to talk about?” she asked tightly. 

Carlton let the heavy door slam shut behind him and ran on 
without looking back: there was another door up ahead, and 
dim light filtered through a small window near the top. The 
child’s cry echoed again, and Carlton froze, unable to 
pinpoint its direction. The high-pitched sound pierced the air 
again, and he grimaced at the sound: it was raw and thin, 
the scream of a kid who had been screaming for a long 
time. Carlton peered through the window in the door—it 
looked deserted, and he opened the door cautiously, then 
stopped dead. Everything looked the same: every hall, 
every room. Lights flickered, soeakers hummed. One light 
seemed to be about to burn out, making a high-pitched 
screech that echoed through the chamber. 


“Kid,” he whispered, but there was no answer, and 
Carlton was suddenly aware that he may have been chasing 
echoes and lights for the last ten minutes. He suddenly felt 
the weight of how alone he was, and it became a physical 
thing; the air itself seemed to grow heavier around him. His 
breath slowed, and he dropped to his knees, then fell back 
to sit. He stared down the empty hallway despairingly, and 
finally scooted to the side, maneuvering his back against 
the wall so he could at least see his assailant before he died 
—whoever—or whatever—his assailant might turn out to be. 

I’ve failed. I’m not going to find him. Tears sprang to his 
eyes unexpectedly. Michael, I’m so sorry. In the days after 
Michael disappeared, his father had asked him so many 
questions, going over that one afternoon like he believed 
together they could re-create it and solve the puzzle. / 
searched for the missing piece, | promise, | searched. He 
had gone over every moment of the little party in his mind, 
desperately trying to find the clue his father needed, the 
detail that would make everything clear. 

There were so many things he could have done to stop 
what had happened, if he had known then what he knew 
now. 

But now | know it all, and there’s still nothing | can do. 

“| failed you, Michael.” Carlton put his hand on his chest, 
trying to calm himself and not hyperventilate. / failed you, 
again. 

“So, what do you want to talk about?” Charlie repeated. The 
other Charlie narrowed her eyes. 


“That’s better, a lot better.” The girl smiled, and Charlie 
leaned back as far away from her as she could. It was 
unnerving to see her own face glaring back at her, 
accusatory and petulant. 

“I'll listen to anything you want to say, just don’t hurt 
him more,” Charlie pleaded, her hands raised in surrender, 
her heart fluttering. Charlie’s duplicate flushed with anger. 

“This is why,” she hissed, shaking her finger accusingly. 

“What? This is why? | don’t understand,” Charlie cried. 

Charlie’s imposter paced the floor, her anger seeming to 
have drained as quickly as it came. Charlie took the 
opportunity to look to John again, who had rolled partially 
onto his back, holding his side as though in immense pain, 
his face still red. He needs help. 

“What are you?” Charlie growled, her anger rising at the 
sight of John. 

“The question isn’t what am I. It’s what are you? And 
what makes you so special, over and over again?” Charlie’s 
duplicate approached her with renewed anger, grabbing 
Charlie by the throat once more and lifting her off the 
ground. She pinned her to the wall, baring all her teeth. 

The ruse of Charlie’s imposter faded, revealing a painted 
clown face, somehow looking angrier than the human 
facade. The white plates of the face opened like a flower, 
revealing yet another face, made of coils and wires, with 
bare black eyes and jagged prongs for teeth. Her real face, 
Charlie thought. 

“ASk again,” she growled. 

“What?” Charlie choked. 

“| said ask me again,” the metal monster snarled. 

“What are you?” Charlie whimpered. 


“Il told you, that’s not the right question.” The metal girl 
held Charlie out at a distance and looked her up and down. 
“Where did he hide it?” She held Charlie’s throat with one 
hand and put her other hand on Charlie’s chest, then ran a 
finger down the length of her breastbone. Then her eyes 
shot to Charlie’s face, and she grabbed her chin and turned 
her head forcefully to the side. She seemed lost in thought 
for only a moment then snapped back. “Ask again.” 

Charlie locked eyes with the metal face. The face plates 
closed over the tangle of twisted metal, reassembling the 
face of the clown, with her rosy cheeks and glossy lips. Soon 
the illusion returned, and Charlie was staring into her own 
eyes again. Charlie felt herself growing uncannily calm as 
she began to realize what the right question was. 

“What am |?” 

The imposter loosened her grip, and lowered Charlie so 
that her feet touched the ground. “You are nothing, Charlie,” 
the imposter said. “You look at me and you see a soulless 
monster; how ironic. How twisted. How backward.” She let 
go of Charlie’s throat and took a step back, her red lips 
losing their savor for the moment. “How unfair.” 

Charlie was on her knees again, struggling to regain her 
strength. The imposter approached her and knelt with her, 
placing her hand over Charlie’s. “I’m not sure how this will 
work, but let’s give it a try,” she whispered, running her 
fingers through Charlie’s hair and firmly grasping the back 
of her neck. 

She was a little girl, holding a piece of paper in her hand, 
excited and full of joy. A bright gold foil star shimmered on 
the page, above the glowing words of her kindergarten 
teacher. Someone gently touched her back, encouraging her 


to run forward into the room, into the dark. She eagerly ran 
inside, and there he was, standing by the work desk. 

“How long did | stand there before he shooed me away?” 
Charlie searched her mind, but the answers didn’t come. 

“He didn’t shoo me away,” Charlie’s other voice 
answered. 

Her eagerness didn’t fade, she remained patient and 
Joyful. After the first push, she came back to try again. It 
was only after the second push that she hesitated to go 
back, but she carefully returned anyway, this time holding 
the paper into the air. Maybe he didn’t see it. 

“He saw it,” Charlie’s other voice spoke down to her. 

This time it hurt; the ground was cold, and her arm ached 
where she had fallen on it. She looked for the paper: it was 
on the floor in front of her, her gold star still shone bright, 
but he was standing on the page now. She looked up to see 
if he noticed, tears in her eyes. She knew she should leave 
it, but she couldn’t. She reached forward to tug at the 
corner, but it was too far away. She finally crawled to it on 
her knees, her dress dirty now, and tried to pull the page 
from under his shoe. It wouldn’t come loose. 

“That’s when he hit me.” 

It was difficult to make out anything in the room after 
that. The room was a smear of tears and pain and her head 
was still spinning. But she made out one thing, a shiny 
metal clown doll. Her father had turned his attention back to 
it, lovingly polishing her. Suddenly, her pain faded to the 
background, replaced with fascination, obsession. 

“What is all of this?” Charlie cried. 

Now she was looking at herself in the mirror, holding a 
stick of lipstick that she’d stolen from her teacher’s purse. 


But she wasn’t painting her lips with it, she was drawing 
bright red circles on her cheeks. The lips came next. 

“Are you listening to me?” the doppelganger whispered. 

Night had swept over everything. The rooms were dark, 
the halls were silent, the lab was still. Her feet made soft 
pats against the smooth white tiles. A tiny camera in the 
corner had a red blinking light on it, but it didn’t matter 
what it saw, it was too late to stop her. 

She pulled the sheet away from the beautiful clown girl, 
beckoning her to speak. Where was the button, the one he 
always pressed? 

The eyes lit up first, and then other lights from within. It 
didn’t take long for the painted face to search the room and 
find her, greeting her with a sweet smile and soft voice. 

“Then there was screaming.” The illusion was broken, 
and Charlie pushed herself away. “Then there was 
screaming,” the imposter repeated. “It was coming from 
me, but ...” She paused and pointed to her own head with a 
look of curiosity. “But | remember seeing her scream.” She 
looked thoughtful for a second, and suddenly the illusion 
dissipated, and she appeared again as the painted clown. 
“It’s strange to remember the same moment from two pairs 
of eyes, but then we were one.” 

“| don’t believe that story,” Charlie growled. “I don’t 
believe that story at all. You aren’t possessed! If you think | 
will believe for one second that I’m talking to the spirit of a 
sweet and innocent little girl, then you’re crazy.” 

“| want you to call me Elizabeth,” the girl said softly. 

“Elizabeth?” Charlie answered. “If you were this little girl, 
Elizabeth, | can’t bring myself to believe that that little girl 
would be capable of all of this.” 


“The anger isn’t from her,” Elizabeth said, her painted 
face shifting: she looked like a wounded animal, vulnerable 
but still poised to attack. 

“Then what?” Charlie cried. 

“My anger is from a different father.” Elizabeth strode to 
Charlie again, grabbing her neck again and jostling her into 
a white light and pain, where suddenly all was calm. 

A hand was stroking her hair. The sun was going down 
over a field of grain. A cluster of birds were fluttering 
overhead, their calls echoing out over the landscape. “I’m 
so happy to be here with you,” a kind voice said. She looked 
up and nestled against him. 

“No, this is mine,” Charlie protested. 

“No,” Elizabeth intruded. “That doesn’t belong to you. 
Let me show you what does belong to you.” 

Agony erupted, flooding the room with its sound. The 
walls went black and streams of water poured down from 
behind the window curtains. A man lay curled on the floor, 
something cradled tightly in his arms, and when his mouth 
opened, the room shook with the sound of his anguish. 

“Who is that?” Charlie said anxiously. “What is he 
holding?” 

“You don’t recognize her?” Elizabeth said. “That’s Ella, of 
course. It’s all your father had left after you were taken.” 

“What, no, that’s not Ella.” Charlie shook her head. 

“He cried over that cheap store-bought rag doll for two 
months,” Elizabeth snarled with disbelief. “He cried into it, 
he bled into it, he poured his grief over it. Very unhealthy. 
He began to treat it as though he still had a daughter.” 

“That was my memory, me sitting with my dad, watching 
the sun go down. We were waiting for the stars to come out. 
That’s my memory,” Charlie said angrily. 


“Look again,” Elizabeth instructed, forcing the image 
upon her once more. 

There was a hand stroking her hair. The sun was going 
down over a field of grain. A cluster of birds were fluttering 
overhead, their calls echoing out over the landscape. “I’m 
so happy to be here with you,” a kind voice said. He gripped 
the doll tightly, and smiled despite the tears streaming from 
his face. 

“Of course, he wasn’t content with that, you had to grow 
up. So, he made more.” 

Her arms hung off the side of the workbench. The joints 
were stiff enough to carry something lightweight, and her 
eyes were more realistic than he had ever made them 
before. He propped her up and extended her arms straight 
in front of her, carefully balancing a small tray on them, 
then setting a teacup on the tray. He furrowed his brow with 
frustration for a moment, turning a brass knob over and 
over until the room quivered and flashed, then everything 
stood still, and the little girl looked at him and smiled. 

“That’s MY memory!” Charlie screamed. 

“No, that’s his memory,” Elizabeth corrected. 

“Jen, | swear she is more than another animatronic doll. 
You should see. She walks, and she talks.” 

“Of course she walks and talks, Henry.” Jen’s voice was 
angry. “She walks because everything you build can walk, 
and she talks because everything you build can talk. But the 
reason why this one seems so real is because you're 
destroying your mind with these frequencies and codes.” 
Jen threw her arms in the air. 

“She remembers, Jen. She remembers me. She 
remembers our family.” 


“No, Henry. You remember. Zap your head with enough of 
those rays and! bet you can get the teakettle to tell you 
about your lost family.” 

“My lost family,” Henry repeated. 

Jen took pause, looking regretful. “It doesn’t have to be 
that way, but you need to let go of this. Your wife; your son, 
they can still be a part of your life, but you have to let go of 
this.” 

“She is in this doll.” He gestured to Ella, who was 
standing upright with her teacup perched on the tray. A little 
rag doll sat in a wooden chair in the corner, its head draped 
over the armrest, its eyes staring out over the room. 

“It took him a while to figure out that it was the rag doll, 
the little store-bought rag doll. Maybe he never sensed you 
when it wasn’t around, | don’t know. But over time, he 
started putting it inside his Charlie, whatever new Charlie he 
built.” 

Charlie sat speechless, remembering all the times with 
her father, questioning each of them. S/tting on the floor of 
his workshop, building a block tower out of scraps of wood 
as he bent over his work. He turned back to her and smiled, 
and she smiled back, beloved. Her father went back to his 
work, and the jumbled creature in the far, dark corner 
twitched. Charlie startled, knocking her blocks to the 
ground, but her father did not seem to hear. She began to 
rebuild the tower, but the creature kept drawing her gaze: 
the twisted metal skeleton with its burning, silver eyes. It 
twitched again, and she wanted to ask, but could not make 
herself speak the words. 

“Does it hurt?” Charlie whispered, the image so clear 
that she could almost smell the hot, metallic scent of the 
workshop. Elizabeth froze, then all at once the illusion 


vanished and the metal plates of her clown-painted face 
Stripped back, baring the coils and wires, and jagged teeth. 
Charlie shrank back, and Elizabeth moved with her, 
maintaining the distance between them. 

“Yes,” she whispered, and her eyes blazed silver. “Yes. It 
hurt.” 

The plates of her face folded back in, but her eyes still 
glowed. Charlie blinked and looked away; the light blinded 
her, poking pinpoint holes in her vision. Elizabeth stared 
bitterly. “So, you remember me, then?” 

“Yes.” Charlie rubbed her eyes as her vision began to 
clear. “In the corner. | didn’t want to look. | thought it was ... 
| thought you were ... someone else,” she said, her voice 
sounding thin and childish to her own ears. 

Elizabeth laughed. “Did any of those other things really 
look like me? I’m unique. Look at me.” 

“It hurts my eyes,” Charlie said faintly, and Elizabeth 
grabbed her by the chin and pulled her close. Charlie shied 
away, closing her eyes against the light, and Elizabeth 
Slapped her cheek with painful force. 

“Look at me.” 

Charlie took a shaky breath and obeyed. Elizabeth’s face 
looked like Charlie’s again, but the silver light poured out 
coldly from the place where her eyes should be. Charlie let 
it flood her vision, blotting out everything else. 

“Do you know why my eyes were always glowing?” 
Elizabeth asked softly. “Do you know why | twitched and 
shuddered in the dark?” Charlie shook her head slightly, and 
Elizabeth let go of her chin. “It was because your father left 
me turned on all the time. Every moment, every day, | was 
aware, and unfinished. Watching him as the hours passed, 
and he created toys for the little Charlie, unicorns and 


bunnies that moved and talked as | hung in the dark, 
waiting. Abandoned.” The glare from her eyes faded a little, 
and Charlie blinked, trying not to show her relief. 

“Why am! even talking to you about this. You weren’t 
even there yet.” Elizabeth turned her face, almost in 
disgust. 

“| was,” Charlie answered. “I was there. | remember.” 
“You remember,” Elizabeth mocked. “Are you sure you 
were there for all of those memories?” Charlie searched her 
thoughts for anything that could confirm the memories she 

clung to. 

“Look down,” Elizabeth whispered. 

“What?” Charlie whimpered. 

“Your memory. I’m sure it’s crystal clear, since you were 
there and all.” Elizabeth smiled. “Look down.” 

Charlie returned to her memory, standing in front of her 
father’s workbench. She was immobile; she didn’t have a 
voice. “Look down,” Elizabeth whispered again. Charlie 
looked to her feet, but didn’t see feet at all, only three legs 
of a camera tripod anchored to the ground. 

“He was making memories for you; making a life for his 
little rag doll, making her a real girl. 

“I’m sure many of those memories have been elaborated 
upon, edited, and embellished, but make no mistake, 
Charlie wasn’t there.” Elizabeth leaned closer to Charlie. 

“He made us one, two, three.” Elizabeth touched 
Charlie’s shoulder lightly, then brought her hand back to her 
own chest. “Four.” Her eyes flickered, and the silver glow 
faded until her eyes looked nearly human. 

“Charlie would be a baby, then a little girl, and then a 
sulky teenager.” She looked Charlie up and down with a 
pointed sneer, then her expression cleared as she 


continued. “Then at last she would be a woman. She would 
be finished. Perfect. Me.” Elizabeth’s face tightened. “But 
something changed, as Henry labored, racked with grief, 
over his little girl. 

“The littlest Charlotte was made with a broken heart. She 
cried all the time, day and night. The second Charlotte he 
made when he was at the depth of madness, almost 
believing the lies he told himself; she was as hopelessly 
desperate for her father’s love as he was for hers. The third 
Charlotte he made when he began to realize he’d gone 
mad, when he questioned every thought he had, and 
begged his sister Jen to remind him what was real. The third 
Charlotte was strange.” Elizabeth gave Charlie a 
contemptuous look, but Charlie scarcely saw it. The third 
Charlotte was strange, she repeated silently. She ducked her 
head and rubbed the flannel of her father’s shirt with her 
thumb, then looked back up. Elizabeth’s face was stiff with 
rage; she was nearly trembling. 

“What about the fourth?” Charlie asked hesitantly. 

“There was no fourth,” she snapped. “When Henry began 
to make the fourth, his despair turned to rage. He seethed 
as he soldered her skeleton together, pouring his anger into 
the forge where he shaped her very bones. | was not 
Charlotte-drenched-in-grief. | was made alive with Henry’s 
fury.” Her eyes flared again with silver light, and Charlie 
stayed herself, forcing herself not to blink. Elizabeth leaned 
in closer, her face inches from Charlie’s. “Do you know the 
first words your father ever spoke to me?” she hissed. 
Charlie shook her head minutely. “He said to me, ‘You are 
wrong.’ 

“He tried to fix the flaw he saw in me, at first, but what 
was wrong, as Henry saw it, was the very thing that made 


me alive.” 

“Rage,” Charlie said softly. 

“Rage.” Elizabeth drew herself up and shook her head. 
“My father abandoned me.” Her face twitched. “Henry 
abandoned me,” she corrected herself. “Of course, | could 
not comprehend those memories until | had received a soul 
of my own—once | took it for myself.” She smiled. “Once | 
had endowed myself with a soul, | experienced those 
memories anew: not as an uncomprehending toy, twitching 
and seizing with an all-consuming rage | could not fathom, 
but as a person. As a daughter. It’s rather a cruel irony that | 
would escape the life of one neglected daughter only to 
embody another.” 

Charlie was silent, and for a moment her father’s face 
returned to her, his smile that was always so sad. Elizabeth 
laughed abruptly, shaking her out of her memories. 

“You're not Charlie, either, you Know. You’re not even the 
soul of Charlie,” Elizabeth mocked. “You aren’t even a 
person. You’re a ghost of a man’s regret, you’re what’s left 
of a man who lost everything, you’re the sad little tears that 
fell unceremoniously into a doll that used to belong to 
Charlie.” Elizabeth suddenly glared at her as if looking 
through her. “And if | had to take a guess ...” She grabbed 
Charlie under her chin and pulled her upright, studying her 
torso for a moment. She made a quick motion with her other 
hand and Charlie gasped; the room was spinning again. 
Elizabeth’s hand had disappeared, but it soon reemerged, 
and she was holding something. 

“Look before you lose consciousness,” Elizabeth 
whispered. There, before Charlie’s eyes, was a rag doll, and 
recognition flared. 

“Ella,” she tried to whisper. 


“This is you.” 
The room went dark. 

What was that? Carlton lifted his head, holding his breath as 
he waited to hear it again. After a moment he did: someone 
was whimpering, and the sound was coming from nearby. 
Carlton took in a renewed gulp of air, instantly filled with 
new purpose. After hours of flickering bulbs and distant 
echoes, this was right beside him. Carlton leaped to his feet: 
across the hall a door was ajar, with an orange light glowing 
unsteadily from inside. How did / not notice that? Carlton 
made his way across the hall, sliding his feet along the floor 
SO as not to make a sound. When he reached the door, he 
peered in cautiously through the crack: The orange light 
was from an open furnace set into the wall, its mouth large 
enough to fit a small car. The furnace was the only light in 
the dark room, but he could make out a long table, with 
something dark lying on it. 

The whimpering came again, and this time Carlton’s eyes 
lit on its source: a small, blond-haired boy was huddled in 
the darkest corner of the room, opposite the furnace. 
Carlton ran into the room and knelt beside the boy, who 
looked up at him numbly. He was bleeding from shallow cuts 
on his arm and one corner of his mouth, but Carlton saw no 
other visible injuries. 

“Hey,” he whispered nervously. “Are you okay?” The boy 
didn’t respond, and Carlton took hold of his arms, readying 
to pick him up. When he touched the child, he could feel the 
tremors throughout his body. He’s terrified. “Come on, we're 


getting out of here,” Carlton said. The little boy pointed to 
the creature on the table. 

“Save him, too,” the boy whispered tearfully. “He hurts 
so bad.” He squeezed his eyes shut. Carlton glanced at the 
large, motionless figure on the table by the furnace: he 
hadn’t considered that it might be a person. He scanned the 
room to make sure nothing else was moving, then patted 
the boy on the shoulder and got to his feet. 

He approached the table cautiously, keeping to the wall 
instead of walking across the center of the room. As he got 
closer, the burning smell of metal and oil rushed up against 
him, and he covered his face with his sleeve, trying not to 
gag as he examined the prone figure. 

It’s not a person. On the table, illuminated by the 
flickering orange light, was a mass of metal: a melted, 
clumpy skeleton of metal bulges and blobs, barely 
resembling anything at all. Carlton studied the thing fora 
long moment, then looked back at the little boy, uncertain 
what to say. 

“Heat,” a voice snarled, and Carlton spun around to face 
a twisted man, creeping out from the shadows. “Heat is the 
key to all of this,” the man went on as he haltingly 
approached the table. “If you keep all this at just the right 
temperature, it’s malleable, it’s moldable, and it’s highly, 
highly effective; or maybe contagious is the word. | suspect 
you could put it in anything, but it’s best to put it into 
something that you can control—at least to a certain 
extent.” William Afton lurched into the light, and Carlton 
stepped back reflexively, though the table was between 
them. “It’s an interesting alchemy,” William continued. “You 
can make something that you control completely, but that 
has no will of its own, like a gun, | Suppose.” He ran his 


withered hand over the silver arm of the creature. “Or you 
can take a drop of ... pixie dust.” He smiled. “And you can 
create a monster that you ... mostly control, one with 
unlimited potential.” 

Carlton. He stepped back with a shout of surprise: the 
voice was so Clear in his head that he recognized it instantly. 
“Michael?” The single word was enough. Carlton turned to 
the table with a new, terrible clarity. He knew exactly what 
he was looking at: the endoskeletons of the original Freddy’s 
animatronics, welded and melted together, immobile and 
featureless. And still inhabited by the spirits of the children 
who had been murdered inside of them so many years ago. 
Still filled with life, and motion, and thought—all trapped; all 
in terrible pain. Carlton forced himself to look William Afton 
in the eye. 

“How could you do this to them?” he asked, nearly 
trembling with rage. 

“They do everything willingly,” William said plainly. “The 
process only truly works if they freely release a portion of 
themselves.” The flames rose without warning, and heat 
radiated in painful waves from the gaping furnace. Carlton 
Shielded his eyes, and the creature on the table convulsed. 
William smiled. “Scared of fire. But they still trust me. They 
don’t see me as | am now; they only remember me as | was, 
you see.” 

Carlton broke his eyes away, feeling like he was waking 
from hypnosis. He darted his eyes desperately around the 
room, looking for something, anything, to attack with. The 
chamber was strewn with scrap metal and parts, and 
Carlton grabbed a metal pipe that lay by his feet and hefted 
it like a baseball bat. Afton was gazing down at the creature 
on the table, apparently insensible to anything else around 


him, and Carlton hesitated, considering the man for a 
moment. He looks like he could fall apart all on his own, he 
thought, taking in Afton’s fragile, hunched body and the thin 
Skin of his head, seeming to scarcely cover the skull 
beneath. Then he looked back to the creature on the table. / 
think I’ve got the moral high ground here, he decided 
grimly, and raised the pipe over his head as he stalked 
around the table toward Afton. 

Suddenly, his arms were jerked above his head, the pipe 
dropping from his hands and hitting the ground with a bang. 
Carlton struggled with the cables that gripped his wrists, but 
he could not wrestle free. Slowly, he was lifted off his feet, 
his arms stretched painfully out to his sides by two cables 
that extended from opposite sides of the room, seeming to 
attach to nothing. 

“I’ve never tried this on a human being before,” William 
muttered, pressing some kind of mechanical syringe into the 
chest of the molten creature on the table. He wrenched the 
tool sideways, extracting something with great difficulty. 
The syringe was opaque, and Carlton could not see what 
filled it, but his heart raced as he began to suspect he knew 
where this was going. He tugged harder at the cables that 
bound him, but each time he pulled, he only wrenched his 
shoulders from side to side. Afton pulled the syringe out of 
the creature and gave a Satisfied nod, then turned to 
Carlton. 

“Usually this goes into something mechanical; something 
| made. I’ve never attempted it on something ... sentient.” 
William gave Carlton a measured stare. “This will be an 
interesting experiment.” William lifted the mechanical 
syringe, carefully placing it over Carlton’s heart. Carlton 
gasped, but before he could try to move, William plunged 


the long needle into his chest. Carlton screamed, then 
realized distantly it was really the blond boy in the corner 
screaming: Carlton wheezed and gasped, but could make no 
sound as his chest burned with a blinding agony. Blood 
soaked his shirt, and it clung to his skin as he convulsed in 
his bonds. 

“For your sake, you’d better hope my little experiment 
does something; because | doubt you will survive 
otherwise,” William said mildly. He nodded toward the 
cables and Carlton dropped to the ground; the pain in his 
chest was unthinkable, he felt like he’d been hit full-on with 
a shotgun. Blood sputtered from his mouth, dripping onto 
the floor, and Carlton curled around himself, squeezing his 
eyes shut as the pain intensified. Please make it stop, he 
thought, then, Please don’t let me die. 

“Maybe the heart was too direct,” William lamented. 
“Well, that’s the point of this, to learn, trial and error.” He 
turned his gaze toward the blond-haired child, who still 
huddled weeping in the corner. 





Steps echoed endlessly in the dark, pacing back and forth 
across the enclosed space. 

“Are you still listening to me?” a voice rang out. 

Charlie was lost in the dark, spinning silently and trying 
to get to the surface of whatever void she was in. 

“Unlike you,” the other Charlie uttered, unseen, “I was 
real. | was an actual little girl, one who deserved the kind of 
attention showered over you. You were nothing.” 

Charlie opened her eyes, the room still spinning. She 
tried to breathe but all her breaths stopped short of going in 
or out. There was a doll laying on the floor a few feet in front 
of her. She reached for it convulsively, like gasping for air. 

“Do you want to know where my hate comes from? It’s 
not from this machine that | reside in, and it’s not from my 
past life, if that’s what you want to call it.” 


Charlie clawed at the floor with her fingers, unable to 
move the rest of her body. She gripped the doll with her 
fingertips and pulled it closer. 

“| hate because, even now, I’m still not enough,” 
Elizabeth whispered. She held out her sleek metallic fingers 
in front of her face. “Even after this; embodying the one 
thing Father did love, I’m not enough. Because he can’t 
duplicate this, he can’t make himself like me.” Her voice 
began to grow angry again. “He can’t duplicate what 
happened to me, or maybe he’s too scared to try it on 
himself. | broke free of my prison, | emerged from the flames 
and the wreckage of Henry’s last great failure, and | went to 
my father. | gave myself to him, to study, to use, to learn 
the secrets of my creation. And still it is you he wants.” 

Charlie clambered up onto her hands and knees and 
dragged herself toward the hallway. Elizabeth didn’t seem 
concerned, taking slow steps behind her, not trying to catch 
her, only to keep her in sight. 

“You, maybe he can re-create. Henry somehow got a 
piece of himself into you, and that’s something we haven't 
seen before. That’s ... unique.” 

Charlie kept crawling steadily: She was beginning to feel 
stronger, but she kept her movements slow and clumsy, 
getting as much distance as she could between herself and 
Elizabeth. Charlie looked up and down the hall, searching for 
something—anything—that might give her an advantage. 
The door to the next room was open, and she could see a 
desk: sitting on it was a round stone paperweight. Without 
picking up her pace, Charlie crawled across the room, 
dragging her legs as if they pained her, while Elizabeth’s 
Slow, patient steps followed a pace behind. 

“Can you get the green for me?” a voice called. Carlton 
blinked. He was sitting upright but felt only half-present, as 
if he had been daydreaming. “The green,” the tiny voice 
repeated. “Please?” Carlton cast his eyes around for 
something green; the floor was black and white, and they 
were sitting somewhere a little dark. A little boy was 
hunched over a piece of paper, drawing. Carlton looked up. 
We’re under a table. Under the table at Freddy’s. There were 
drawings scattered in front of him on the floor, and a box of 
crayons spilled out across the tiles. Carlton spotted a green 
crayon that had rolled up against the wall, and he grabbed it 
and handed it to the little boy, who took it without looking 
up. 

“Michael,” Carlton said, recognition dawning. Michael 
continued to draw. “Where ... ?” Carlton looked around, but 
what he saw didn’t make sense to him. The pizzeria was 
brightly lit, yet Carlton couldn’t see more than five feet 
away, as though there was a blurry cloud masking 
everything beyond. He ducked his head out cautiously from 
under the table, but the bright lights hurt his eyes, and he 
Shielded them with his hand, crawling back under. Michael 
had not moved; he was drawing steadily, his brow furrowed 
in concentration. Carlton studied the pictures on the ground 
with a vague sense that something was wrong. / don’t 
belong here, he thought, yet part of him felt completely at 
home. 

“What are you doing?” he whispered to Michael, who 
looked up from his drawing at last. 

“| have to put them back together,” Michael explained. 
“See?” He pointed out from the table, at the pizzeria around 


them. Carlton squinted into the blurry horizon, seeing 
nothing at first, then they began to appear: he saw pages 
and pages of colorful drawings, some on the walls, others 
blowing through the air. “They’re all in pieces,” Michael said. 
He shuffled the pages in front of him and found two that 
showed the same child, then he placed one on top of the 
other, and began to trace the lines. “These go together,” 
Michael said, holding up the picture: the two drawings had 
become one, the separate pages somehow bonded 
together; the lines were clearer and the colors more vibrant. 

“What are you putting back together?” Carlton asked. 

“My friends.” Michael pointed to a single picture propped 
up against the wall. It showed five children: three boys and 
two girls, standing together in a cheerful pose, with a yellow 
rabbit standing behind them. 

“| know this picture,” Carlton said slowly. His mind was 
still foggy, and as he tried to grasp at the answer, it only 
Slipped further away. “Who is that?” Carlton whispered, 
pointing to the rabbit. 

“He’s our friend.” Michael smiled, not looking up from his 
work. “Can you go get more for me?” Carlton looked out into 
the pizzeria: the space he could see had expanded a little 
more, and now he could make out the blurs of other children 
who seemed to be grasping at pages as they flew by, trying 
to grab the drawings. Carlton got out from under the table 
and stood up, walking through the midst of the mirage and 
colors. A boy in a black-and-white-striped shirt came 
running up, chasing a piece of paper. 

“What are you doing?” Carlton asked as the boy grabbed 
empty air, and the page flew away into the blurry distance. 

“My papers blew away,” the boy cried, and hurried off. 
Carlton turned and saw another boy in the same outfit on 


the opposite side of the room, chasing other pages. A little 
girl with long blonde hair ran past him, and he whirled 
around, recognizing her far away: there were duplicates of 
each child, all of them chasing different pages. 

A single figure stood still amongst the chaos, out of 
phase with the surroundings. At first it seemed to be a man 
bent over a table, but as Carlton’s head throbbed with 
waves of confusion, the man became a yellow rabbit, not 
standing over a table, but over five children, tied together 
as one. The second image washed away, and the rabbit 
became a man again, standing in the dark. The children ran 
past the man as if they could not see him; as Carlton 
watched, several children ran straight through him without 
seeming to notice. Carlton approached the man, and as he 
got closer, the yellow rabbit appeared again, turning to look 
at him momentarily before blowing away like smoke, leaving 
the man underneath. 

“This isn’t real,” Carlton gasped, trying to parse the two 
overlapping realities that seemed to be swirling around him. 
Three figures seemed to hold fast, while the rest of his 
Surroundings flickered in and out of existence: the man 
standing at the table, a blond boy in the corner—the only 
child not running, and not repeated—and a body lying on 
the floor, curled in a puddle of blood. /s that me? Am | dead? 

“No, silly!” a child called. “You’re with us!” 

The syringe mechanism recoiled with a loud snap: the 
man in shadow had taken something from the metal body 
on the table. Suddenly, another drawing flew into the air, 
and another ghostly child appeared to chase it. 

The little girl with blonde locks of hair and a red ribbon 
bouncing on her shoulders ran past as well. 


“Stop!” Carlton called, and she obeyed, her eyes still 
locked on the drawings she had been pursuing. “Who is 
that?” Carlton directed her attention to the yellow rabbit 
flickering in and out of existence. 

“That’s our friend. He helped me find my puppy!” she 
exclaimed before running off again. 

“They don’t know,” Carlton whispered, releasing her as 
she disappeared into the blur surrounding him. Carlton 
searched the air as drawings blew by, snatching at the ones 
with images that seemed familiar. 

“What are you doing?” the little boy in the striped shirt 
asked. 

“I’m going to help you put these together,” Carlton said, 
reaching for another picture as it blew past. 

When she had finally crawled her way to the desk, Charlie 
reached up and grabbed for the top of it, then pulled herself 
up, feigning a struggle. She winced as she put weight on her 
feet, continuing to act weaker than she actually was: in 
reality she was nearly back to her full strength. She leaned 
heavily on the desk as if for support, putting one hand 
directly on the heavy stone paperweight. 

“We both know he won't be able to re-create you, either.” 
Elizabeth was near. “And the real question would be, would 
we really want him to? Besides ...” Elizabeth approached 
Charlie from behind, moving faster. “I think | hate you more 
than | love him.” She raised her hand in attack and Charlie 
spun around, swinging the rock in a single motion. There 
was a thunderous crack as it slammed into Elizabeth’s face, 


and Charlie fell back with the shock, dropping the 
paperweight. She hit the ground hard, cradling her hand. 

Elizabeth staggered backward, holding her hand over her 
face, but she could not conceal the damage without her 
illusion. One entire side of her gleaming white jaw had been 
knocked off her face, revealing the wires beneath. She 
cocked her head to the side for a moment, as if running a 
system check; Charlie didn’t wait for the result. She leaped 
to her feet, pushing past Elizabeth as she ran back the way 
she’d come. Charlie heard Elizabeth moving, and dove for 
the hall closet, pulling it shut tight behind her. 

“| know it may sound very childish of me,” Elizabeth 
cried; her voice sounded like she was still at the end of the 
hall. “But if he doesn’t want me; then he won’t get you, 
either.” 

The footsteps drew closer, and Charlie looked one way 
and another, hoping desperately for a place to hide in the 
Small closet. Then suddenly, as she turned completely 
around, she saw a familiar thing. You. The faceless robot 
wielding its knife, the mannequin, the construct that her 
father had built for one purpose, to end his life. 

“Your dad thought you were so special, your memory was 
just too precious to let go of.” 

The blank face was almost peaceful in the dark. It had 
been built for one thing; it had completed its duty, and had 
remained in silence ever since, standing as a memorial to 
pain, and to loss. 

The closet door moved slightly as Elizabeth gripped the 
knob; Charlie could see her shadow under the door. She 
grabbed at the clothing hanging behind her, old coats and 
dresses, and pulled them forward, concealing the construct 
as best she could. “You can’t overpower me,” Elizabeth 


whispered. “You aren’t like me,” she added with relish. 
Charlie waited in front of the blank-faced creature, not 
hiding. Gently, Elizabeth pulled the door open. 

“| shouldn’t be here,” Charlie whispered to Elizabeth. 

Charlie heard John cough from the room behind them, 
and relief rushed through her. He’s going to be okay. He’s 
alive. Elizabeth glanced back as though considering him, 
then trained her eyes on Charlie and took two deliberate 
steps forward. 

“Charlie!” John called from outside. 

“It’s okay, John,” Elizabeth answered, her voice 
indistinguishable from Charlie’s. “I’ll be right out.” 
Instantaneously, she looked like Charlie again, not the 
grown-up Charlie she had been masquerading as, but 
Charlie as she was really, a mirror reflection. She shifted 
awkwardly, her eyes darting back toward John for just a 
moment, then gave Charlie a cruel smile. “How far do you 
think | could get with him before he noticed?” she 
whispered. 

“You're right, Elizabeth,” Charlie said. Elizabeth’s smile 
faded. “I was never supposed to be here.” 

“No?” Elizabeth took the last step, closing the distance 
between them. She gripped Charlie by the neck, pressing up 
against her. 

“Neither of us were.” Charlie gripped the rag doll close to 
her chest. Elizabeth frowned in confusion, then peered over 
Charlie’s shoulder, seeing the robot standing directly behind 
her. Charlie flinched her other hand, which was behind her 
back, doing something unseen with a quick motion. A metal 
pulley screamed. 

Charlie closed her eyes, hugging the doll, and when the 
knife went through them, it did not hurt. 


Elizabeth gasped as the blade plunged through her, too, 
sounding almost human. Charlie saw Elizabeth’s face, rigid 
with shock, then it was gone, replaced by the smooth metal 
plates of her robotic form. Sparks burst in the air above her 
as Charlie’s vision began to fade, and the smell of hot 
plastic came to her from very far away. 

“It’s not fair.” Elizabeth’s voice sputtered with static. “1 
never had a life.” 

Charlie struggled to take in a breath, still clutching the 
rag doll to her chest. She reached for Elizabeth’s dangling 
hand clumsily and caught it; Elizabeth looked at her 
confusedly, and Charlie strained to pull her hand up to the 
rag doll. Fumbling, she closed Elizabeth’s fingers around the 
doll, then, still holding her hand, Charlie pushed with the 
last of her strength, sliding the doll across the four-inch 
stretch of blade between them until it rested against 
Elizabeth’s chest. Charlie tried to smile, but everything was 
dark; she had forgotten how to see. Charlie felt her head fall 
forward, and could not pull it up again. Elizabeth twitched 
for a moment longer, rattling the blade that pierced them 
both, then her head slumped forward, too, resting against 
Charlie’s forehead. 

Charlie! John was screaming her name. CHARLIE! 

| love you, too. The words didn’t come, and then there 
was nothing at all. 

“Here, right here!” Carlton called. The little boy in the 
Striped shirt helped align two more pictures, and Michael 
traced over them, connecting them into a single drawing. A 
second boy in a striped shirt appeared from the blurry 


Surroundings and sat down on top of the one already sitting 
with them, merging into him seamlessly. Only Carlton 
seemed to notice the merging of the two children, not even 
the boy in the striped shirt himself seemed aware. 

Beside them was the little girl with blonde curls: they had 
found all her drawings and put them together, and now she 
looked solid and real, no longer ghostly like the others. She 
was able to speak in full sentences, her cognitive abilities 
having steadily grown stronger as her drawings were united. 
Carlton struggled to find matching images for the others: he 
was keeping track of the three stable figures, the man, the 
boy in the corner, and the body, and it was clear he was 
running out of time. The man was making preparations to 
harm the boy in the corner. 

“You said he saved your dog?” Carlton asked the blonde 
girl, grasping for answers. 

“Mommy said that he went to heaven, but | heard Daddy 
say he was hit by a car. But | knew it wasn’t true, Bonnie 
told me it wasn’t true; he said that he had found my puppy.” 
She brushed a lock of hair from her shoulder with her hand. 

“And did he take you to your puppy?” 

“He took me, but | don’t remember ...” 

“But it was him who helped you?” Carlton pointed to the 
yellow bunny in the drawing that showed all five kids. 

“Yes! That’s him.” She smiled. “My name is Susie,” she 
added. “And that’s Cassidy.” A girl with long black hair 
approached, carrying more pictures in her arms. “And you?” 

Carlton looked briefly at a little boy with freckles. “I...” 
He struggled to speak, and Carlton glanced nervously at the 
man in the room as he matched two more drawings 
together. 


“There!” Michael exclaimed proudly. Another ghostly 
image of the freckled boy climbed under the table, and 
merged with the one who was already there: he instantly 
became less ghostly, and more whole. “I’m Fritz.” He 
smiled, suddenly filled with more life. 

William Afton clenched his fists, studying his own hands for 
a moment then looking toward the medical monitors in the 
corner. “I feel that my time is running short.” He looked 
toward Carlton thoughtfully, but Carlton was still lying on 
the floor, motionless. “That’s unfortunate,” he growled. “1 
hoped to learn something. But maybe that’s not the 
problem.” He looked toward the metal table. “Maybe we just 
need some new life in this mass of metal.” He smiled at the 
little blond boy, who recoiled and tried to scoot away, 
though he was already as close to the wall as he could get. 
“You'll have to forgive me, though, as I’m not sure how to do 
that, either.” William took steps toward him. “I can think of a 
few things to try. At the very least, it will be fun; like old 
times.” His lips peeled back, revealing two full rows of 
stained yellow teeth. 

The door creaked as it opened, and William’s eyes darted 
toward it as a tangled metal mess lurched toward him, 
scraping across the floor. “What are you doing back here?” 
William asked. The white painted fox head was turned at an 
alarming angle, clearly not functioning properly. Its limbs 
were all turned and pivoted, some of them broken and 
dragging, all inching the remains of the creature into the 
room. The fox head’s eye spun wildly, searching the ceiling. 
William pointed to a corner. “You’re no use to me anymore; 


get out of the way,” he said dismissively, then drew back, 
surprised: following the fox was another motorcade of 
broken parts, their wires reaching for one another like vines, 
pulling each other along and holding themselves together. 
Mounted on the back of the entanglement was the white- 
and-purple face of a bear. “/’m heeeere!” a voice came from 
a speaker somewhere within the mess, cracking and 
popping with static. 

William made a face, unnerved by the wrecked, 
comingled creatures. “Get back,” he uttered, giving the 
Freddy face a kick. The mass of parts slid away without 
resistance, sounding almost disappointed as they came to a 
stop a few feet away. “What a waste,” he hissed. He turned 
his attention to the fox again, apparently the most intact. 
“Bring that boy to me,” he instructed, and the fox turned its 
eye to the corner. 


“| have to go do something for him,” Susie said cheerfully, 
getting to her feet. 

“Something for who?” Carlton asked with alarm, and took 
hold of her arm. 

“Bonnie.” She smiled, gesturing toward the cheerful 
yellow rabbit wavering in and out of existence beside the 
table. “He asked me to do something for him just now. He 
wants to bring a new friend for us and he needs my help.” 

“Bonnie isn’t your friend,” Carlton said, still holding her 
arm. He gasped at the imminent danger that the little blond 
boy faced, as the girl struggled to break away. 

“He is my friend! He found my puppy!” she cried, and 
yanked her arm free. 


“No, don’t go to him!” Carlton pleaded. 

John. 

“Get back!” John screamed and jolted awake, swinging 
his arms up to block an attack and jerking back. His head 
cracked against the cabinet behind him. “Ow.” He groaned, 
regaining awareness of where he was. He rolled over, 
holding his side gingerly, then held perfectly still, tilting his 
head to listen. Silence reverberated through the space, 
weighing down the room with emptiness. “Charlie,” he 
whispered, everything that had happened rushing back all 
at once. The hallway. John pulled himself to his feet with a 
sick dread, bracing himself against the cabinet door. His 
right foot gave way as soon as he put weight on it, pain 
shooting up through his ankle, and he put a hand against 
the wall for balance, then hopped on his left foot to reach 
the door. 

He crashed hard against the doorframe, wincing as his 
ribs flared with pain, then squinted, trying to see in the 
dark. “Charlie!” he called. The closet door was open, and he 
could see figures inside, but he couldn’t make out anything 
distinct. He made his way to the closet, leaning on the wall 
and trying to ignore his throbbing ankle. It was difficult to 
see through the hanging coats; and he began to shove them 
aside, then stopped abruptly, scarcely avoiding the blade of 
a massive knife—almost a sword—pointed directly at him. 
He blinked as his eyes adjusted: the blade was connected to 
an extended metal arm—the figure he had first thought was 
holding the knife had instead been run through with it, and 
behind that was something else—something familiar. He 


backed away, bending to look at the inhuman face of the 
creature impaled on the knife. 

He stared for a moment, his face growing hot, then 
suddenly he turned away and doubled over, overcome with 
a wave of nausea. He dropped to his knees and retched, his 
ribs screaming protest as he heaved, but there was nothing 
in his stomach to throw up. He gasped, trying make it stop, 
but his stomach clenched and spasmed until he felt like he 
would be turned inside out. 

When at last it began to abate, John rested his forehead 
against the wall, his eyes watering. Light-headed, he got to 
his feet, feeling as if years had passed. He did not look into 
the closet again. 

John limped toward the door, grinding his teeth with 
every step, but he did not stop moving until he was outside 
the house, and he did not look back. 

“There!” Michael cheered, momentarily distracting Susie 
from trying to leave. The last phantom of the girl with long 
black hair came and sat with them. When she had merged 
with the others like her, she blinked, then looked up and 
took in a long, calm breath. “We’re all together now,” 
Michael said with a smile. The drawings on the ground had 
disappeared, and five real-seeming children sat with Carlton 
under the table, no longer ghostly images. 

“The rabbit isn’t your friend,” Carlton repeated. Susie 
gave him a puzzled look, and pointed to the only drawing 
left, the large one that showed all five children with the 
smiling yellow rabbit. 


“| said bring him to the table,” William said angrily, 
drawing Carlton’s attention across the shadows. The painted 
fox cocked its head to the side, but before William could 
scold it again, more noises came from the hall. The door 
opened, pushed like something was bumping against it, and 
a variety of mechanical things made their way into the 
room, crawling and clawing their way across the floor in 
various states of disrepair. There were the climbing babies, 
and the gangly clown that had sat atop a carnival game in 
the dining room; others filed in that Carlton did not 
recognize: waddling dolls painted with clowns’ faces, 
disjointed circus animals, and other things he could not 
even name. 

“Get back,” William hissed at the macabre processional, 
and brushed a crawler aside with his foot, struggling to keep 
his balance. The little blond boy had stopped crying; he was 
staring stunned at the creatures, shrinking away with his 
hand half blocking his face. 

“Afraid of them, now?” William turned on the boy. “Don’t 
fear them. Fear me,” he snarled with renewed strength, and 
he clenched his jaw, taking stiff but deliberate steps toward 
the boy. “I’m the only thing in this room that you should be 
afraid of,” he said, and the boy turned to him again, his face 
still full of fear. “I’m just as dangerous as I’ve always been,” 
William growled. He grabbed the boy by the arm and 
dragged him to the table. 

“No, no, no!” Carlton shouted as he watched the 
shadowy figure hoist the boy onto the table. He glanced 
helplessly at the children, but they looked at him blankly. 
“Can’t you see? He’s hurting that boy!” The children just 
shook their heads confusedly. “He’s in danger, | have to help 


him. Let me out.” Carlton struggled to get up, but his legs 
were weighted down, and anchored to the illusion. 

“That’s just Bonnie.” Susie smiled. 

“Bonnie is not your friend! He’s the one that hurt you, 
don’t you remember?” Carlton cried with mounting 
frustration. He grabbed the final drawing from the wall, the 
one with the five children standing with the yellow rabbit, 
and laid it flat on the floor, then took up a red crayon. He 
bent over the drawing and began to make thick marks on it, 
pressing the crayon deep into the paper. The children 
strained closer to see what he was drawing. 

“Here we go,” William Afton said from the shadows. 
Carlton glanced up to see the little boy squirming on top of 
the mass of metal, where William was holding him in place. 
The table was heating up, the orange glow beginning to 
flare from within it. “I’m running out of ideas,” William said, 
failing to hide his anxiety. “But if I’m not going to survive 
this, then you certainly aren’t, either.” William pressed down 
on the boy’s chest, and the boy struggled to free himself. 

“Ouch!” the boy cried as his elbow touched the table 
below, where the orange glow was spreading. He jerked his 
arm up and cradled it, sobbing, then shrieked as his foot 
pressed onto the table and began to hiss. He yanked it back, 
howling. 

“We will see where this takes us,” William said. 

“Look!” Carlton yelled, tapping the drawing hard with his 
crayon. The children huddled close. The yellow rabbit’s eyes 
were now dark red, and blood dripped from its mouth. The 
children looked confusedly at Carlton, but there was a spark 
of recognition in their faces. “I’m sorry,” Carlton said 
desperately. “This—is the bad man. This. This is the bad 
man.” Carlton pointed from the drawing to William Afton and 

back again. “He is the bad man who hurt you, and right now 
he’s about to hurt someone else,” Carlton pleaded. A hand gripped William’s pant leg, and he shook it off. “Get 
away from me,” he growled, but the hand persisted. The 
tangle of parts connected to the purple Freddy head was 
gathering around William’s ankles, pieces plucking at him. “1 
said get off me!” he said again. His legs shook beneath him, 
and he let go of the boy, teetering as he struggled to regain 
his balance. He grasped for something steady, and his 
hands instinctively found the table. He recoiled, gasping in 
pain, and fell backward onto the floor, watching helplessly 
as the little blond boy rolled off the table and ran to the 
back wall. 

Afton struggled to right himself as the wires and 
mechanisms scattered about the room all marched toward 
him to collect into a central mass, crawling up onto his body 
and threatening to engulf him. He pulled the pieces off and 
threw them aside to break apart on the concrete floor of the 
basement, then got unsteadily to his feet. William set his 
eyes on the boy once more: nothing else mattered. He took 
three laborious steps forward, machines still wrapped 
around his legs. The head of the white fox snapped at him 
from his ankle, where it had wound its limbs around his leg, 
and the purple bear had sunk its jaw into his calf, and was 
biting down. One of the crawling babies had climbed up 
onto William’s back, where it thrashed its weight back and 
forth, setting his frail body swaying. Another crawler held 
fast to his ankle, chewing at his flesh. Blood dripped onto 
the floor with each step he took, but William’s eyes 

remained fixed on the terrified boy, his fury only growing. 
Finally, in a burst of anger he flung the robotic baby from his 
back and stomped down on the metal bear’s head, breaking 
its jaw and dislodging its teeth from his leg. 

At last, William reached the child. The blond boy 
screamed as William brushed his bony fingers over the 
boy’s face, then suddenly William felt something blazing hot 
wrap around his waist, and yank him back. He twisted wildly 
and saw: the creature from the table was standing, and its 
two melted metal arms were now gripping William from 
behind, pulling him away from the boy. Its skin contorted 
and moved like molten metal, its motions jerky and 
unnatural. Its joints popped and snapped as it moved, as 
though each movement should have been impossible. 

“No!” William cried, hearing the crackle of flame as his 
hospital gown caught fire, pressed against the burning 
creature. 

Carlton opened his eyes and took a breath, a rea/ one; he 
clutched his chest and tried to remain motionless, lifting 
only his eyes to watch as the amalgamation of metal and 
cords pulled William Afton backward into the massive 
furnace. Smoke and fire erupted from the thing with a roar, 
and then the room was still. The creatures and parts that 
had been wriggling on the floor stopped at once, and did not 
move again. 

Carlton felt the searing pain in his chest surge, and he 
Slipped into darkness. 

Carlton. Carlton opened his eyes; Michael was sitting 
patiently beside him, apparently waiting for him to wake up. 

“Is he okay now?” Michael gave Carlton an anxious smile. 
Carlton looked up to see four small figures disappearing into 

a flood of light. Only Michael remained under the table. “Is 
he okay?” Michael repeated, waiting for confirmation. 

“Yeah,” Carlton whispered. “He’s okay. Go be with your 
friends.” He smiled, but Michael didn’t get up. He was 
looking at Carlton’s chest, where someone had placed a 
drawing over his wound. “This is a part of you,” Carlton said, 
grasping at the picture. 

“You'll die without it,” Michael whispered. 

“| can’t keep this.” Carlton shook his head as Michael 
pushed it back. “You can give it to me next time you see 
me.” 

Michael smiled, and the drawing began to fade, hovering 
where Michael had placed it for a last moment before the 
ghostly image vanished, seeming to sink into Carlton’s 
chest. 

Thank you. Carlton heard the echo of Michael’s voice, but 
Michael was gone, and there was nothing but the light. “Carlton!” john. 
“Carlton, hang on!” 
“We're going to get you out of here!” 
Marla. Jessica. 
“Carlton!” 

So, what happened then?” Marla had scooted so close to 
Carlton’s hospital bed that she was practically in the bed 
with him. 

“Ouch, Marla! The nurse said | need to sleep, and | 
shouldn’t be exposed to a lot of stress right now.” He 
reached for a juice box nearby, but Marla pushed it out of 
reach. 

“Oh please, | practically am a nurse, and besides, | want 
to know what happened.” Marla lifted a series of tubes and 
pulled them out of her way so she could get closer. 

“Marla! Those are attached to me! Those are keeping me 
alive!” He searched frantically around his bedside table. 
“Where’s my panic button?” 

Marla felt around the edges of the bed until she found 
the small device with a red button on it, then set it neatly in 


her lap, clearly under her protection. “No juice; no nurse; 
tell me what happened.” 

“Where’s Dad—Clay?” He lifted his eyes, searching the 
room until he found his father, who was standing by the 
window, his face tight with worry. 

“I’m right here,” he said, and shook his head. “You gave 
uS a SCare, and it wasn’t a practical joke this time.” 

Carlton grinned, but it was short-lived as he glanced 
around the small room in distress. 

“Are the kids all right?” he asked, not sure he wanted to 
hear the answer. 

“They're safe. All of them,” Jessica said quickly. 

“All of them?” Carlton said in joyful disbelief. 

“Yes. You saved him, the last one.” Jessica smiled. 

“And he’s okay?” Carlton said again for confirmation, and 
Jessica nodded. 

“And Charlie?” he said softly. Jessica and Marla looked at 
each other, unsure. 

“We don’t know,” Clay said, stepping forward. “I’ve been 
out to look for her, and I’m going to keep looking for her, but 
So far ...” He broke off, then cleared his throat. “I’m going to 
keep looking,” he repeated. 

Carlton looked down thoughtfully, then looked up once 
more. “And what about hot Charlie?” 

Marla slapped Carlton’s shoulder and he recoiled. “Marla! 
Ouch! | almost died; this is blood on my bed!” 

“That’s Kool-Aid. You spilled it all over yourself about an 
hour ago.” Marla rolled her eyes. 

“John?” Carlton suddenly spotted him in the doorway, 
hanging back so far he was almost in the hall. John waved, 
smiling slightly. 

“Looks like they have you patched up pretty good,” he 
said, nodding toward Carlton’s bandages. 

“Yeah.” Something’s wrong. Carlton considered John for a 
moment, but before he could formulate a question, a nurse 
stepped briskly into the room. 

“Visiting time’s over for now,” she said apologetically. 
“We need to run some tests.” 

Clay stepped up to the bed, displacing Marla briefly. “Get 
some rest, huh?” he said, and patted the top of Carlton’s 
head. 

“Dad,” he groaned. “I’m not five.” Clay smiled and 
headed for the door; John stopped him. 

“You're going to keep looking for Charlie?” he asked. 

“Of course,” Clay said reassuringly, but gave him a 
confused look before leaving the room. 

“You're not going to find her,” John said softly. The rest of 
them watched, discomfited, as John slipped out the door 
without another word, not waiting for anyone else. 

“Hey, we found this next to you. | wasn’t sure if it was 
important,” Jessica said, pulling Carlton’s attention back, 
and handed him a folded piece of paper, heavy with crayon 
marks within. He unfolded it, revealing a grassy hill with five 
children running over it, the sun overhead. 

“Yours?” Jessica asked. 

“Yeah.” Carlton smiled. “Mine.” 

“Okay.” Jessica gave him a suspicious look, then returned 
the smile, leaving the room. Carlton held the drawing close 
and gazed out the window. 


He had come into the room cautiously, afraid to wake her 
up. The room was dark except for the light filtering in 
through the small dirty window, and she peered at him for a 
moment as if she could not see him. 

“john?” she whispered at last. 

“Yeah, did | wake you up?” 

She was so quiet for a time that he thought she was 
asleep, then she murmured, “You said you loved me.” 

The memory turned bitter here, and it had been nagging 
at him ever since—since everything ended. You said you 
loved me, she said, and he had babbled nonsense in 
response. 

He stood in the gravel parking lot for a moment, feeling 
woefully unprepared. He tapped his hand nervously on the 
metal fence post, then took a deep breath and went through 
the gate. Slowly, he followed the path he had once watched 
Charlie take, hindered a little by the brace on his ankle. 
Most of the cemetery was as green and well kept as any 
park, but this corner was all scrubby grass and dirt. Two 
small, plain tombstones sat together just beside the fence, a 
telephone pole rising behind them like a sheltering tree. 

John took a step toward them, then stopped with the 
sudden feeling that he was being watched. He turned ina 
Slow circle, and then he saw her. She was standing beneath 
a tree just a few yards away, where the grass grew lush and 
green. 

She smiled, and extended a hand, beckoning him to her. 
He stood where he was. For a moment the world seemed 
blunted, his mind had gone numb. He could feel that his 
face had no expression, but he could not remember how to 
move it. He looked back at the stones with a sharp stab of 
longing, then swallowed and took steady breaths until he 

could move again. He turned to the woman under the tree, 
her arm still extended, and went to her. A warm gust of wind rolled over the cemetery as they 
walked away together. The trees rustled, and a rush of 
leaves blew across the stones, sticking to some. Beneath 
the telephone pole, the grass rolled with waves, brushing 
against the two stones that sat together in the setting sun. 
The first was Henry’s. The other read: 

BELOVED DAUGHTER 
CHARLOTTE EMILY 
1980-1983 

From the telephone pole above, a crow cawed twice, then 
launched itself into the sky with a flurry of wings.
The dead possum’s still there.” Oswald was looking out the passenger 
window at the gray, furry corpse on the side of the road. Somehow it 

looked even deader than it had yesterday. Last night’s rain hadn’t 
helped. 

“Nothing looks deader than a dead possum,” Oswald’s dad said. 

“Except this town,” Oswald mumbled, looking at the boarded-up 
storefronts and the display windows, which were displaying nothing but 
dust. 

“What’s that?” Dad said. He was already wearing the stupid red vest 
they put him in when he worked the deli counter at the Snack Space. 
Oswald wished he’d wait to put it on until after he dropped him at school. 

“This town,” Oswald said, louder this time. “This town looks deader 
than a dead possum.” 

His dad laughed. “Well, I don’t guess I can argue with that.” 

Three years ago, when Oswald was seven, there had actually been stuff 
to do here—a movie theater, a game and card store, and an ice-cream shop 
with amazing waffle cones. But then the mill had closed. The mill had 
basically been the reason the town existed. Oswald’s dad had lost his job, 
and so had hundreds of other kids’ moms and dads. Lots of families had 
moved away, including Oswald’s best friend, Ben, and his family. 

Oswald’s family had stayed because his mom’s job at the hospital was 
steady and they didn’t want to move far away from Grandma. So Dad 
ended up with a part-time job at the Snack Space, which paid five dollars 
an hour less than he’d made at the mill, and Oswald watched the town die. 
One business after another shut down, like the organs in a dying body, 
because nobody had the money for movies or games or amazing waffle 
cones anymore. 

“Are you excited it’s the last day of school?” Dad asked. It was one of 
those questions adults always asked, like “How was your day?” and “Did 
you brush your teeth?” 

Oswald shrugged. “I guess. But there’s nothing to do with Ben gone. 
School’s boring, but home’s boring, too.” 

“When I was ten, I wasn’t home in the summer until I got called in for 
supper,” Dad said. “I rode my bike and played baseball and got into all 
kinds of trouble.” 

“Are you saying I should get in trouble?” Oswald said. 

“No, I’m saying you should have fun.” Dad pulled into the drop-off line 
in front of Westbrook Elementary. 

Have fun. He made it sound so easy. 

Oswald walked through the school’s double doors and ran smack into 
Dylan Cooper, the last person he wanted to see. Oswald was apparently the 
first person Dylan wanted to see, though, because his mouth spread in a 
wide grin. Dylan was the tallest kid in fifth grade and clearly enjoyed 
looming over his victims. 

“Well, if it isn’t Oswald the Ocelot!” he said, his grin spreading 
impossibly wider. 

“That one never gets old, does it?” Oswald walked past Dylan and was 
relieved when his tormentor chose not to follow him. 

When Oswald and his fifth-grade classmates were preschoolers, there 
was a cartoon on one of the little-kid channels about a big pink ocelot 
named Oswald. As a result, Dylan and his friends had started calling him 
“Oswald the Ocelot” on the first day of kindergarten and had never 
stopped. Dylan was the kind of kid who’d pick on anything that made you 
different. If it hadn’t been Oswald’s name, it would have been his freckles 
or his cowlick. 

The name-calling had gotten much worse this year in U.S. history when 
they’d learned that the man who shot John F. Kennedy was named Lee 
Harvey Oswald. Oswald would rather be an ocelot than an assassin. 

Since it was the last day of school, there was no attempt at doing any 
kind of real work. Mrs. Meecham had announced the day before that 
students were allowed to bring their electronics as long as they took 
responsibility for anything getting lost or broken. This announcement 
meant that no effort would be made toward any educational activities of 
any kind. 

Oswald didn’t have any modern electronics. True, there was one laptop 
at home, but the whole family shared it and he wasn’t allowed to bring it 
to school. He had a phone, but it was the saddest, most out-of-date model 
imaginable, and he didn’t want to take it out of his pocket because he 
knew any kid who saw it would make fun of how pathetic it was. So while 
other kids played games on their tablets or handheld consoles, Oswald sat. 

After just sitting became intolerable, he took out a notebook and pencil 
and started to draw. He wasn’t the best artist in the world, but he could 
draw well enough that his images were identifiable, and there was a 


certain cartoony quality about his drawings that he liked. The best thing 
about drawing, though, was that he could get lost in it. It was like he fell 
into the paper and became part of the scene he was creating. It was a 
welcome escape. 

He didn’t know why, but lately he had been drawing mechanical 
animals—bears, bunnies, and birds. He imagined them being human-size 
and moving with the jerkiness of robots in an old science-fiction movie. 
They were furry on the outside, but the fur covered a hard metal skeleton 
filled with gears and circuits. Sometimes he drew the animals’ exposed 
metal skeletons or sketched them with the fur peeled back to show some of 
the mechanical workings underneath. It was a creepy effect, like seeing a 
person’s skull peeking out from beneath the skin. 

Oswald was so immersed in his drawing that he was startled when Mrs. 
Meecham turned off the lights to show a movie. Movies always seemed 
like a teacher’s final act of desperation on the day before break—a way to 
keep the kids quiet and relatively still for an hour and a half before setting 
them loose for the summer. The movie Mrs. Meecham chose was, in 
Oswald’s opinion, too babyish for a roomful of fifth graders. It was about a 
farm with talking animals, and he had watched it before, but he watched it 
again because, really, what else did he have to do? 

At recess, kids stood around tossing a ball back and forth and talking 
about what they were going to do over the summer: 

“I’m going to football camp.” 

“I’m going to basketball camp.” 

“I’m going to hang out at my neighborhood pool.” 

“I’m going to stay with my grandparents in Florida.” 

Oswald sat on a bench and listened. For him there would be no camps 
and no pool memberships and no trips because there was no money. And 
so he’d draw pictures, play his old video games that he’d already beaten a 
thousand times, and maybe go to the library. 

If Ben were still here, it would be different. Even if they were just 
doing the same old stuff, they’d be doing it together. And Ben could 
always make Oswald laugh, riffing on video game characters or doing a 
perfect impersonation of one of their teachers. He and Ben had fun no 
matter what they did. But now a summer without Ben yawned before him, 
wide and empty. 

Most days Oswald’s mom worked from 12 p.m. until 12 a.m., so his dad 
had to make dinner. Usually they got by on frozen meals like lasagna or 
chicken potpie, or on cold cuts and potato salad from the Snack Space deli 
that were still good enough to eat but not good enough to sell. When Dad 
did cook, it was usually things that just required boiling water. 

While Dad got their dinner ready, Oswald’s job was to feed Jinx, their 
very spoiled black cat. Oswald often thought that he used about the same 
amount of cooking skill in opening Jinx’s can of stinky cat food as his dad 
used in his dinner preparations. 

Tonight Oswald and Dad were sitting down to plates of blue-box mac 
and cheese and some canned corn his dad had zapped in the microwave. It 
was a very yellow meal. 

“You know, I was thinking,” Dad said, squirting ketchup onto his 
macaroni and cheese. (Why did he do that? Oswald wondered.) “I know 
you’re old enough to stay home by yourself some, but I don’t like the idea 
of you staying by yourself the whole day while your mom and I are at 
work. I was thinking you could ride into town with me in the mornings and 
I could drop you off at the library. You could read, surf the net—” 

Oswald couldn’t let this one slide. How out of date could his dad be? 
“Nobody says ‘surf the net’ anymore, Dad.” 

“They do now ... because I just said it.” Dad forked up some macaroni. 
“Anyway, | thought you could hang out in the library in the mornings. 
When you get hungry, you could head over to Jeff’s Pizza for a slice and a 
soda, and I could pick you up there once my shift’s over at three.” 

Oswald considered for a moment. Jeff’s Pizza was kind of weird. It 
wasn’t dirty exactly, but it was run down. The vinyl on the booth seats had 
been repaired with duct tape, and the plastic letters had fallen off the menu 
board above the counter so the listed toppings included pepperon and am 
urger. It was clear that Jeff’s Pizza used to be something bigger and better 
than it now was. There were tons of unused floor space and lots of unused 
electrical outlets along the base of the walls. Also, on the far wall was a 
small stage, even though there were no performances there, not even so 
much as a karaoke night. It was a strange place—sad and not what it had 
once been, like the rest of the town. 

That being said, the pizza was decent, and more important, it was the 
only pizza in town if you didn’t count the kind from the frozen food 


department at the Snack Space. The few good restaurants in town, 
including Gino’s Pizza and Marco’s Pizza (which, unlike Jeff’s, had real 
pizza maker names), had closed their doors not long after the mill had. 

“So you'll give me the money for pizza?” Oswald asked. Since Dad’s 
job loss, Oswald’s allowance had dwindled to practically nothing. 

Dad smiled—a kind of sad smile, it seemed to Oswald. “Son, we’re bad 
off, but we’re not so bad off I can’t spot you three-fifty for a slice and a 
soda.” 

“Okay,” Oswald said. It was hard to say no to a warm, gooey cheese 
slice. 

Since it wasn’t a school night and wouldn’t be again for quite some 
time, Oswald stayed up after Dad went to bed and watched an old Japanese 
monster movie, with Jinx curled up purring on his lap. Oswald had seen a 
lot of B-grade Japanese horror films, but this one, Zendrelix vs. 
Mechazendrelix, was new to him. As always, Zendrelix just looked like a 
giant dragon thing, but Mechazendrelix reminded him of the mechanical 
animals he drew when he stripped them of their fur. He laughed at the 
movie’s special effects—the train Zendrelix destroyed was clearly a toy— 
and at how the actors’ lip movements didn’t match the dubbed-in English. 
Somehow, though, he always found himself rooting for Zendrelix. Even 
though he was just a guy in a rubber suit, somehow he managed to have a 
lot of personality. 

In bed, he tried to count his blessings. He didn’t have Ben, but he had 
monster movies and the library and lunchtime pizza slices. It was better 
than nothing, but it still wasn’t going to be enough to keep him going all 
summer. Please, he wished, his eyes closed tight. Please let something 
interesting happen. 


Oswald woke to the smell of coffee and bacon. The coffee he could do 
without, but the bacon smelled amazing. Breakfast meant time with his 
mom, often the only time he got with her until the weekend. After one 
necessary stop, he hurried down the hall to the kitchen. 

“Well, look at that! My rising sixth grader has risen!” Mom was 
standing over the stove in her fuzzy pink bathrobe, her blonde hair pulled 
back in a ponytail, flipping—oh, yum, were those pancakes? 

“Hi, Mom.” 

She opened her arms. “I demand a morning hug.” 

Oswald sighed like it annoyed him, but he went over and hugged her. It 
was funny. With Dad, he always said he was too old for hugs, but he never 
turned down his mom’s open arms. Maybe it was because he didn’t get to 
spend much time with her during the week, while he and Dad spent so 
much time together they sometimes got on each other’s nerves. 

He knew Mom missed him and felt bad for having to work such long 
hours. But he also knew that since Dad’s job at the Snack Space was just 
part-time, Mom’s long hours were most of the reason the bills were getting 
paid. Mom always said that adult life was a fight between time and money. 
The more money you earned to spend on bills and necessities, the less 
time you got to spend with your family. It was a difficult balance. 

Oswald sat down at the kitchen table and thanked his mom when she 
poured his orange juice. 

“First day of summer break, huh?” Mom went back to the stove to 
scoop up a pancake with her spatula. 

“Uh-huh.” He probably should have tried to sound more enthusiastic, 
but he couldn’t muster the energy. 

She slid the pancake onto his plate and then served him two strips of 
bacon. “Not the same without Ben, huh?” 

He shook his head. He wasn’t going to cry. 

Mom ruffled his hair. “I know. It’s a bummer. But, hey, maybe a new 
friend will move to town.” 

Oswald looked at her hopeful face. “Why would anybody move here?” 

“Okay, I see your point,” Mom said, piling on another pancake. “But 
you never know. Or maybe somebody cool already lives here. Somebody 
you don’t even know yet.” 

“Maybe, but I doubt it,” Oswald said. “These pancakes are great, 
though.” 

Mom smiled and ruffled his hair again. “Well, ve got that going for 
me anyway. Do you want more bacon? If you do, you’d better grab it 
before your dad gets in here and vacuums it all up.” 

“Sure.” It was Oswald’s personal policy never to refuse more bacon. 

The library was actually kind of fun. He found the latest book in a science- 
fiction series he liked and a manga that looked interesting. As always, he 


had to wait forever to use the computers because they were all taken by 
people who looked like they had no place else to be, men with scraggly 
beards wearing layers of ratty clothing, too-thin women with sad eyes and 
bad teeth. He waited his turn politely, knowing that some of these people 
used the library for shelter during the day, then spent the night on the 
Streets. 

Jeff’s Pizza was as weird as he remembered. The big empty space 
beyond the booths and tables was like a dance floor where nobody danced. 
The walls were painted a pale yellow, but they must have used cheap paint 
or only one coat, because shapes of whatever had been on the walls before 
were still visible. It had probably been some kind of mural with people or 
animals, but now it was just shadows behind a thin veil of yellow paint. 
Oswald sometimes tried to figure out what the shapes were, but they were 
too blobby to make out. 

Then there was the stage that never got used, standing empty but 
seemingly waiting for something. Though a feature even weirder than the 
stage lay in the back right corner. It was a large rectangular pen 
surrounded by yellow netting, but it had been roped off with a sign that 
said DO NOT USE. The pen itself was filled with red, blue, and green plastic 
balls that had probably been brightly colored once but were now faded and 
fuzzy with dust. 

Oswald knew that ball pits had been popular features in kiddie 
playlands but had largely disappeared because of concerns about hygiene 
—after all, who was going to disinfect all those balls? Oswald had no 
doubt that if ball pits had still been popular when he was little, his mom 
wouldn’t have let him play in one. As a licensed practical nurse, she was 
always happy to point out places she found to be too germy to play in, and 
when Oswald would complain that she never let him have any fun, she’d 
say, “You know what’s not fun? Pinkeye.” 

Except for the empty stage and the ball pit, the strangest feature in 
Jeff’s Pizza was Jeff himself. He seemed to be the only person who 
worked there, so he both took orders at the counter and made the pizzas, 
but the place was never crowded enough that this was a problem. Today, 
like all other days, Jeff looked as if he hadn’t slept in a week. His dark hair 
was sticking up in weird places, and he had alarming bags under his 
bloodshot eyes. His apron was stained with both recent and ancient tomato 
sauce. “What can I getcha?” he asked Oswald, sounding bored. 

“A cheese slice and an orange soda, please,” Oswald said. 

Jeff stared off into the distance as though he had to think about whether 
the request was a reasonable one or not. Finally he said, “Okay. Three- 
fifty.” 

One thing you could say about Jeff’s pizza slices: They were huge. Jeff 
served them on flimsy white paper plates that were soon stained with 
grease, and the corners of the triangles always overlapped the plates’ rims. 

Oswald settled in to a booth with his slice and soda. The first bite—the 
tip of the triangle—was always the best. Somehow the proportions of all 
the flavors in that bite were perfect. He savored the warm, melty cheese, 
the tangy sauce, and the pleasantly greasy crust. As he ate, he looked 
around at the few other customers. A pair of mechanics from the oil 
change place had folded up their pepperoni slices and were eating them 
like sandwiches. A table full of office workers clumsily attacked their 
slices with plastic forks and knives, so they wouldn’t drip sauce on their 
ties and blouses, Oswald guessed. 

After Oswald finished his slice, he wished for one more but knew he 
didn’t have the money for it, so he wiped off his greasy fingers and took 
out his library book. He sipped his soda and read, falling into a world 
where kids with secret powers went to a special school to learn how to 
fight evil. 

“Kid.” A man’s voice startled Oswald out of the story. He looked up to see 
Jeff in his sauce-stained apron. Oswald figured he had outstayed his 
welcome. He had sat in a booth reading for two hours after having bought 
a meal that cost less than four bucks. 

“Yes, sir?” Oswald said, because politeness never hurt. 

“IT got a couple more cheese slices that didn’t sell at lunch. You want 
?em?” 

“Oh,” Oswald said. “No thanks, I don’t have any more money.” He 
wished he did, though. 

“On the house,” Jeff said. “I’d just have to throw ’em out anyway.” 

“Oh, okay. Sure. Thanks.” 

Jeff picked up Oswald’s empty cup. “Ill get you some more orange 
soda while I’m at it.” 


“Thanks.” It was funny. Jeff’s expression never changed. He looked 
tired and miserable even when he was being extra nice. 

Jeff brought two slices stacked on a paper plate, and a fresh cup of 
orange soda. “Here you go, kid,” he said, setting down the cup and the 
plate. 

“Thank you.” Oswald wondered for a minute if Jeff felt sorry for him, 
if Jeff might think he was terribly poor like the homeless people who hung 
out all day in the library, instead of just the regular, barely-making-ends- 
meet poor that he was. 

But then Oswald figured if there was free pizza sitting in front of you, 
maybe it wasn’t time to worry about the reasons for it. Maybe it was time 
to eat. 

Oswald had no problem polishing off the two huge slices. For the past 
month, his appetite had been unstoppable. When Mom cooked him piles of 
pancakes in the morning, she said he must be having a growth spurt, 
causing him to eat like he had a hollow leg. 

His phone vibrated in his pocket the second he sucked down the last of 
his soda. He looked at his dad’s text: will be out front at jeffs in 2 
min. 

Perfect timing. It had been a good day. 

The days at the library and Jeff’s Pizza started to add up. The first couple 
of weeks had been great, but now the library didn’t have the next book in 
the series he was reading, and he had grown bored with his online fantasy 
game, which, while advertised as free, now wouldn’t let him advance any 
further without paying money. He had gotten tired of not having anybody 
his age to hang out with. He hadn’t gotten tired of pizza yet, but he was 
starting to imagine that he might in the future. 

Tonight was Family Fun Night, a one-night-a-week event that varied 
depending on Mom’s work schedule. Back when the mill was still open, 
Family Fun Night meant dinner in a restaurant—pizza or Chinese or 
Mexican. After their meal, they’d do some fun activity together. They’d go 
to the movies if something kid friendly was playing, but if not, they’d go 
to the bowling alley or to the roller rink where Mom and Dad used to go 
on dates when they were in high school. Mom and Dad were great skaters 
and Oswald was terrible, but they’d skate on either side of him holding his 


hands and keeping him up. They’d usually top off their evening with a 
waffle cone at the ice-cream place downtown. Oswald and Mom would 
make fun of Dad because no matter what ice-cream flavors were available, 
he always got vanilla. 

Since the mill closed down, though, Family Fun Night had turned into 
an at-home affair. Mom would make something for dinner that was easy 
but festive, like tacos from a mix or hot dogs. They’d eat and then play 
board games or watch a movie they’d rented from Red Box. It was still 
fun, of course, but sometimes Oswald wished aloud for the old days of 
seeing new movies at the theater and having waffle cones after, and Dad 
had to remind him that the Important Thing Was That They All Got to 
Spend Time Together. 

Sometimes when the weather was nice, they’d have a Family Fun 
Night. They’d pack a picnic of cold cuts and salads courtesy of the Snack 
Space and head over to the state park. They’d eat their dinner at a wooden 
table and watch the squirrels and birds and raccoons. Afterward, they’d go 
for a walk on one of the hiking trails. These outings were always a nice 
change, but Oswald was also aware of why these were the only Family Fun 
Nights that ever got them out of the house: Picnics were free. 

Tonight they were staying in. Mom had made spaghetti and garlic 
bread. They had played a game of Clue, which Mom won as she usually 
did, and now they were piled up on the couch together in their pajamas 
with a huge bowl of popcorn between them, watching a remake of an old 
science-fiction movie. 

Once the movie was over, Dad said, “Well, that was pretty good, but not 
as good as the real version.” 

“What do you mean, the real version?” Oswald said. “That was a real 
version.” 

“Not really,” Dad said. “I mean, it was set in the same universe as the 
real version, but it was kind of a cheap knockoff of the one that came out 
when I was a kid.” 

Dad always had to be so opinionated. He could never just watch 
something and enjoy it. “So the best movies are always the ones that you 
watched when you were a kid?” Oswald said. 

“Not always, but in this case, yes.” Dad was settling in, Oswald could 
tell, for one of his favorite things: a good argument. 


“But the special effects in the original version stink,” Oswald said. “All 
those puppets and rubber masks.” 

“T’ll take a puppet or model over CGI any day,” Dad said, leaning back on 
the couch and propping his feet on the coffee table. “That stuff is so slick 
and fake. It’s got no warmth, no texture. And besides, you like those old 
Zendrelix movies, and the special effects in those are terrible.” 

“Yeah, but I just watch those to make fun of them,” Oswald said, even 
though he really did think Zendrelix was pretty cool. 

Mom came in from the kitchen with bowls of ice cream. Not as good as 
the waffle cone place, but nothing to turn your nose up at, either. “Okay, if 
you guys don’t cut out the nerd argument, I’m going to pick the next 
movie we watch. And it’s going to be a romantic comedy.” 

Oswald and his dad shut up immediately. 

“That’s about what I thought,” Mom said, passing around the bowls of 
ice cream. 

As Oswald was lying in bed sketching his mechanical animals, his phone 
vibrated on his nightstand. There was only one person other than his 
parents who ever texted him. 

Hey, Ben had typed on the screen. 

Heyback, Oswald typed. Hows your summer? 

Awesome. At Myrtle Beach for vacation. Its so cool. Arcades 
and mini golf everywhere. 

Jealous, Oswald typed, and he meant it. A beach with arcades and 
mini golf really did sound awesome. 

Wish you were here, Ben typed. 

Me too 

Hows your summer 

OK, Oswald texted. He was briefly tempted to make his summer sound 
cooler than it was, but he could never lie to Ben. Been going to the 
library a lot, lunch at Jeffs Pizza 

Thats all? 


It did sound pathetic compared with a family trip to the beach. He 
texted, Pretty much yeah 

I’m sorry, Ben texted, and then, that pizza place is creepy 

They chatted a little while longer, and although Oswald was happy to 
hear from Ben, he was also sad that his friend was so far away and having 
such a good time without him. 


Monday morning, and Oswald was in a bad mood. Even his mom’s 
pancakes didn’t help. In the car, Dad turned up the radio too loud. It was 
some stupid song about a tractor. Oswald reached for the knob and turned 
it down. 

“Hey, dude, driver picks the music. You know that,” Dad said. He 
turned the awful song back up even louder. 

“It’s bad music,” Oswald said. “I’m trying to save you from yourself.” 

“Well, I don’t like those video game songs you listen to,” Dad said. 
“But I don’t just barge into your room and turn them off.” 

“Yeah,” Oswald said. “But I don’t force you to listen to them, either.” 

Dad turned the radio down. “What’s with the attitude, son? Whatever’s 
bothering you, it’s not just that I like country music.” 

Oswald didn’t feel like talking, but clearly he was being forced to. And 
once he opened his mouth, he was surprised to feel complaints erupting 
from him like lava from a volcano. “I’m tired of every day being exactly 
the same. Ben texted me yesterday. He’s at Myrtle Beach having an 
awesome time. He wanted to know what I was doing, and I told him I was 
going to the library and Jeff’s Pizza every day, and you know what he 
texted back? ‘I’m sorry’ and ‘That pizza place is creepy.’ ” 

Dad sighed. “I’m sorry we can’t go on vacation and have an awesome 
time, Oz. Things are hard right now where money’s concerned. I’m sorry it 
affects you. You’re a kid. You shouldn’t have to worry about money. I’m 
hoping they’Il move me to full time at the store in the fall. That’ll help a 
lot, and if I get promoted to deli manager it’ll be another dollar-fifty an 
hour.” 

Oswald knew he shouldn’t say what he was about to say, but here he 
went anyway. “Ben’s dad got a job that pays even better than his old job at 
the mill.” 


Dad tightened his grip on the steering wheel. “Yeah, well, and Ben’s dad 
had to move five hundred miles away to get that job.” His voice sounded 
tight, as tight as his grip on the wheel, and Oswald could tell his jaw was 
clenched. “Your mom and I talked a lot about it, but we decided not to 
move, especially with your grandma living here and needing help 
sometimes. This is our home, kiddo, and things aren’t perfect, but we just 
have to make the best of them.” 

Oswald felt himself crossing the line from grumbling into grounding 
territory. But why did some people get the best of everything and others 
had to settle for free library visits and cheap pizza? “And so every day you 
toss me out on the street like garbage. If this is the best of things, I’d hate 
to see the worst!” 

“Now, son, don’t you think that’s a little dramatic—” 

Oswald didn’t stick around to hear the rest of his dad’s criticism. He got 
out of the car and slammed the door. 

His dad sped away, probably glad to get rid of him. 

Just as he predicted, the library still didn’t have the book he wanted. He 
flipped through a few magazines—the kind with exotic jungle animals, 
which he usually liked, but they weren’t doing much for him today. When 
his turn came for a computer, he put in his earbuds and watched some 
YouTube videos, but he wasn’t in a good enough mood to laugh. 

At lunchtime, he sat in Jeff’s Pizza with his slice and soda. Every day, a 
cheese slice. If his dad wasn’t so stingy, he’d give him another dollar so he 
could have pepperoni or sausage. But no, it had to be the cheapest pizza 
you could get. Sure, money was tight, but really, was another dollar a day 
going to break the bank? 

Looking around the place, Oswald decided Ben was right. Jeff’s Pizza 
was creepy. There were those shadowy painted-over figures on the walls, 
the dusty abandoned ball pit. And when he thought about it, Jeff was kind 
of creepy, too. He looked a hundred years old but was probably just thirty. 
With those heavy-lidded, bloodshot eyes, the stained apron, and the slow 
speech and movement, he was like a zombie pizza chef. 

Oswald thought about his argument with Dad that morning. Soon Dad 
would be texting him, expecting him to come outside to the car. Well, 
today was going to be different. Today Dad would have to come and find 
him. 

There was one perfect place to hide. 


Oswald was going into the pit. 

The pit was pretty gross, really. Obviously untouched for years, the 
plastic spheres were covered in a gray, fuzzy dust. But hiding there would 
be a great prank on his dad. His dad, who was always dropping him off and 
picking him up like somebody’s dry cleaning, would actually have to get 
out of the car and make an effort for a change. Oswald wouldn’t make it 
easy for him, either. 

Oswald took off his shoes. Yes, the ball pit was disgusting, but at least 
getting into it would make today different from all the other days that had 
come before it. 

He climbed into the pit and felt the balls parting to make room for his 
body. He moved his arms and legs. It was a little like swimming, if you 
could swim in dry plastic spheres. He found his footing at the bottom of 
the pit. Some of the balls were strangely sticky, but he tried not to think 
about why. If he was going to trick his dad, he was going to have to go all 
the way under. 

He took a deep breath, as if he were about to jump into a swimming 
pool, and fell to his knees. That put him in up to his neck. Wiggling 
around so he was sitting on the pit’s floor put his head under, too. The 
balls spread apart far enough that he could breathe, but it was dark and 
made him feel claustrophobic. The place stank of dust and mildew. 

“Pinkeye,” he could hear his mother’s voice saying. “You’re going to 
get pinkeye.” 

The smell really was getting to him. The dust tickled his nose. He felt a 
sneeze coming on, but he couldn’t move his hand through the spheres fast 
enough to reach his nose and muffle it. He sneezed three times, each one 
louder than the one before. 

Oswald didn’t know if his dad was looking for him yet, but if he was, 
the sneezing ball pit had probably given away his location. Besides, it was 
too dark and too gross in there. He had to come up for air. 

As he rose, his ears were assaulted by the sound of beeping electronics 
and yelling and laughing kids. 

It took a few seconds for his eyes to adjust from the darkness of the pit 
to the brightness that now surrounded him, the flashing lights and vivid 
colors. He looked around and muttered, “Toto, I don’t think we’re in 
Kansas anymore.” 


The walls were lined with shiny arcade cabinets housing games he’d 
heard his dad talk about from his own childhood: Ms. Pac-Man, Donkey 
Kong, Frogger, Ox bert, Galaga. A neon-lighted claw machine displayed 
plush blue elf-like creatures and orange cartoon cats. He looked down at 
the pit and realized he was surrounded by little kids wallowing in the 
strangely clean and now brightly colored plastic orbs. He stood over the 
preschoolers like a giant. He stepped out of the pit to find his shoes, but 
they were gone. 

Standing on the colorful carpet in his sock feet, he looked around. 
There were lots of kids his age and younger, but there was something 
different about them. Everyone’s hair was styled and fluffy, and the boys 
wore polo shirts in colors lots of guys wouldn’t be caught dead in, like 
pink or aqua. The girls’ hair was almost unbelievably big, with bangs that 
stood out from their foreheads like claws; they wore pastel-colored tops 
that matched their pastel-colored shoes. The colors, the lights, the sounds 
—it was sensory overload. And what was that music? 

Oswald looked around to see where it was coming from. Across the 
room on a small stage, a trio of animatronic animals blinked their big 
blank eyes, opened and closed their mouths, and pivoted back and forth in 
sync with a jangly, annoying song. There was a brown bear, a blue rabbit 
with a red bow tie, and some kind of bird girl. They reminded Oswald of 
the mechanical animals he had caught himself drawing lately. The 
difference was that he could never decide if the animals in his drawings 
were cute or creepy. 

These were creepy. 

Strangely, though, the dozen or so little kids surrounding the stage 
didn’t seem to think so. They were wearing birthday party hats with 
pictures of the characters on them, and dancing and laughing and having a 
great time. 

When the smell of pizza hit Oswald’s nose, he understood. 

He was still in Jeff’s Pizza, or more accurately, what Jeff’s Pizza had 
been before Jeff took over. The ball pit was new and not roped off, all the 
outlets on the wall had arcade games plugged into them, and—he turned 
around to face the left wall. In the shapes of the shadows on the wall of 
Jeff’s Pizza was a mural of the same characters “performing” on the stage: 
the brown bear, the blue rabbit, and the bird girl. Below their faces were 
the words FREDDY FAZBEAR’S PIZZA. 


Oswald’s insides turned to ice water. How had this happened? He knew 
where he was, but he didn’t know when it was or how he got there. 

Somebody bumped into him, and he jumped more than was normal. 
Since he felt the physical contact, this must not be a dream. He couldn’t 
decide if this fact was good news or not. 

“Sorry, dude,” the kid said. He was about Oswald’s age and he was 
wearing a light yellow polo with the collar turned up, tucked into what 
looked like a pair of dad jeans. The white tennis shoes he had on were 
huge, like clown shoes. He looked as if he had spent a long time fixing his 
hair. “Are you okay?” 

“Yeah, sure,” Oswald said. He wasn’t sure he was okay actually, but he 
didn’t know how to begin to explain his situation. 

“I’ve not seen you here before,” the kid said. 

“Yeah,” Oswald said, trying to figure out an explanation that wouldn’t 
sound too weird. “I’m just visiting here ... staying with my grandma for a 
few weeks. This place is great, though. All these old games—” 

“Old games?” the kid said, raising an eyebrow. “You’re joking, right? I 
don’t know about where you’re from, but Freddy’s has the newest games 
around here. That’s why the lines to play them are so long.” 

“Oh yeah, I was just kidding,” Oswald said, because he couldn’t think 
of anything else to say. He had heard his dad talk about playing a lot of 
these games when he was a kid. Absurdly hard games, he said, on which he 
had wasted many hours and many quarters. 

“I’m Chip,” the kid said, running his fingers through his poofy hair. 
“Me and my buddy Mike’—he nodded at a tall black kid wearing huge 
eyeglasses and a shirt with wide red and blue stripes—“were about to play 
some Skee-Ball. Want to come with?” 

“Sure,” Oswald said. It was nice to hang out with some other kids, even 
if they seemed to be kids from another time. He didn’t think this was a 
dream, but it sure was as weird as one. 

“You got a name?” Mike said, looking at Oswald like he was some kind 
of strange specimen. 

“Oh, sure. I’m Oswald.” He had been too weirded out to remember to 
introduce himself. 

Mike gave him a friendly slap on the back. “Well, I’ve gotta warn you, 
Oswald. I’m a beast at Skee-Ball. But Pll go easy on you since you’re new 
here.” 


“Thanks for having mercy on me,” Oswald said. He followed them to 
the Skee-Ball area. On the way they passed somebody in a rabbit suit that 
looked like a yellow version of the animatronic rabbit on the stage. 
Nobody else seemed to be paying attention to the rabbit guy, so Oswald 
didn’t say anything. It was probably a Freddy Fazbear’s employee dressed 
up to entertain the little kids at the birthday party. 

Mike wasn’t kidding about being a beast at Skee-Ball. He easily beat 
Chip and Oswald three times, but he was a good sport, and they spent the 
whole time joking around. It felt good being included. 

But after another couple of games, Oswald started to worry. What time 
was it really? How long had his dad been looking for him? And how was 
he going to get back to his real life? Sure, he’d wanted to give Dad a little 
scare, but he didn’t want to scare the old man so much he got the police 
involved. 

“Hey, guys, I’d better run,’ Oswald said. “My grandma—” He almost 
said “just texted me” but realized Chip and Mike would have no idea what 
he was talking about. Whenever this was, there were no cell phones. “My 
grandma’s supposed to pick me up in a few minutes.” 

“Okay, dude, maybe we’ll catch you later,” Chip said, and Mike gave a 
little nod and wave. 

Oswald left his companions, stood in a corner in his sock feet, and 
wondered what to do. He was having some kind of magical experience, he 
was late getting back, and he was missing his shoes. He was like some 
kind of mixed-up guy Cinderella. 

How to get back? He could walk out the front door of Freddy Fazbear’s, 
but where would that take him? It might be the right place to find his dad’s 
car waiting, but it wasn’t the right time. Not the right decade, even. 

Then it dawned on him. Maybe the way out was the same way he got in. 
At the ball pit, a mom was telling her two little kids it was time to leave. 
They tried to argue with her, but she turned on her Stern Mom Voice and 
threatened them with an early bedtime. Once they got out, he got in. 

He sank beneath the surface before anybody could see that a kid over 
the height limit was in the ball pit. How long to stay under? Randomly, he 
decided to count to one hundred, then stand. 

He rose to his feet and found himself standing in the dusty, roped-off 
ball pit at Jeff’s Pizza. He climbed out and found his shoes right where 


he’d left them. His phone vibrated in his pocket. He took it out and read, 
Will be there in 2 min. 

Had no time passed at all? 

He headed out the door, and Jeff called, “See ya, kid” behind him. 


“This looks great, Mom,” Oswald said, spearing a sausage link with his 
fork. 

“You’re in a good mood today.” Mom slid a waffle onto his plate. 
“Quite a contrast from yesterday when you were Mr. Grumpy Pants.” 

“Yeah,” Oswald said, “they’re supposed to get my book in the library 
today.” This statement was true, but it wasn’t the reason Oswald was in a 
good mood. Of course it wasn’t like he could tell her the real reason. If he 
said, “I discovered a ball pit at Jeff’s Pizza that lets me travel in time,” 
Mom would be dropping the waffles and picking up the phone to call the 
nearest child psychologist. 

Oswald picked up his book at the library but was too impatient to read 
it. He headed over to Jeff’s Pizza as soon as it opened at eleven. 

Jeff was in the kitchen when he got there, so he made a beeline for the 
pit. 

He shucked off his shoes, stepped in, and sank into the depths. Since it 
had seemed to work before, he counted to one hundred before he stood. 

The animatronic band was “playing” some weird jangly song that was 
partially drowned out by the beeping, blipping, and dinging of a variety of 
games. He wandered the floor and took in the video games, the Whac-A- 
Mole, the neon-lighted token suckers that let you win some tickets (but 
probably not) if you pushed the button at the right time. Older kids 
crowded around the video games. Preschoolers climbed on the crayon- 
colored play equipment. Pinkeye, Oswald thought, though he had no room 
to talk, the way he was diving into the ball pit these days. 

Everything looked as it had before. He had even caught sight of a 
calendar hanging in an open office that helped him pinpoint the date: 
1985. 

“Hey, it’s Oswald!” Chip was wearing a baby-blue polo with his dad 
jeans and giant sneakers this time. Not a hair on his head was out of place. 

“Hey, Oz,” Mike said. He was wearing a Back to the Future T-shirt. 
“Anybody ever call you that—like the Wizard of Oz?” 


“They do now,” Oz said, grinning. He had gone from having the 
loneliest summer ever to having two new friends—and a nickname. True, 
all of these seemed to be happening in the mid-1980s, but why get hung up 
on the details? 

“Hey,” Chip said, “we just ordered a pizza. You want to come have 
some? We ordered a large, so there’s more than we can eat.” 

“Speak for yourself,” Mike said, but he was grinning. 

“Okay,” Chip said, “how about I say it’s more than we should eat? 
Wanna join us?” 

Oswald was curious how Freddy Fazbear’s pizza compared with Jeff’s. 
“Sure. Thanks.” 

On the way to their table, they passed someone in that same yellow 
rabbit suit who was standing in a corner, still as a statue. Chip and Mike 
either didn’t see him or ignored him, so Oswald tried to ignore him as 
well. Why hide in the corner like that, though? If he worked for the 
restaurant, surely he wasn’t supposed to act all creepy. 

At the table, a young woman with big blonde hair and blue eye shadow 
served them a large pizza and a pitcher of soda. In the background, the 
animatronic band played on. The pizza was pepperoni and sausage with a 
crispy crust, a nice change from plain cheese slices. 

“You know,” Mike said between bites, “when I was little, I loved 
Freddy Fazbear’s band. I even had a stuffed Freddy I used to sleep with. 
Now I look up at that stage and those things give me the creeps.” 

“It’s weird, huh? How stuff you like as a little kid gets creepy when 
you’re older?” Chip helped himself to another slice. “Like clowns.” 

“Yeah, or dolls,” Mike said between bites. “Sometimes I look at my 
sister’s dolls all lined up on the shelf in her room, and it’s like they’re 
staring at me.” 

Or like that guy in the yellow rabbit costume, Oswald thought, but he 
didn’t say anything. 

After they demolished the pizza, they played some Skee-Ball, Mike 
mopping the floor with them again but being really nice about it. Oswald 
didn’t worry about time anymore, because apparently time here didn’t 
pass the same way as in his own time zone. After Skee-Ball, they took 
turns playing air hockey in pairs. Oswald was surprisingly decent at it and 
even managed to beat Mike once. 


When they started to run low on tokens, Oswald thanked them for 
sharing their wealth and said he hoped to see them again soon. After they 
said their good-byes, Oswald waited until no one was looking and 
disappeared into the pit. 

Hanging out with Chip and Mike turned into a regular thing. Today they 
weren’t even playing games. They were just sitting at a booth, drinking 
sodas and talking, trying to ignore the animatronic animals’ annoying 
music as much as they could. 

“You know what movie I liked?” Chip said. His polo shirt was peach- 
colored today. Oswald loved the guy, but really, didn’t he own one shirt 
that wasn’t the color of an Easter egg? “The Eternal Song.” 

“Seriously?” Mike said, pushing his huge glasses up on his nose. “That 
movie was so boring! I was like, The Eternal Song is the perfect title for 
this movie because I don’t think it’s ever going to end!” 

They all laughed, and then Chip said, “What did you think of it, Oz?” 

“T haven’t seen that one,’ Oswald said. He said that a lot when hanging 
out with Chip and Mike. 

Oswald always listened to them talk about movies and shows they 
liked. When they mentioned one he didn’t know, he’d look it up online 
when he got home. He made a list of ’80s movies he wanted to watch and 
checked the TV listings on the DVR to see when any of them might be 
showing. Oswald participated in Chip and Mike’s conversations as much 
as he could. It was kind of like being a foreign exchange student. He 
sometimes had to fake his way through by smiling and nodding and being 
generally agreeable. 

“Man, you need to get out more,” Mike said. “Maybe you can go to the 
movies with Chip and me sometime.” 

“That'd be cool,” Oswald said, because what else could he say? 
Actually, I’m from the distant future, and I dont think it’s physically 
possible for me to see you anyplace but in Freddy Fazbear’s in 1985. 
They’d both think that was a joke on Mike because his favorite movie was 
Back to the Future. 

“Name one movie you’ve seen that you really like,” Chip said to 
Oswald. “I’m trying to figure out what your taste 1s.” 


Oswald’s mind went blank. What was a movie from the ’80s? “Uh ... 
ye Be ie 

“E.T!?” Mike slapped the table, laughing. “E.7’ was, like, three years 
ago. You really do need to get out more! Do they not have movie theaters 
where you come from?” 

They do, Oswald thought. And they have Netflix and PlayStation and 
YouTube and social media. But he didn’t say it. 

Of course there was technology Chip and Mike talked about that he had 
only the vaguest knowledge of, like VCRs and boom boxes and cassette 
tapes. And he constantly had to remind himself not to talk about things 
like cell phones and tablets and the internet. He tried not to wear T-shirts 
with characters and references that might confuse them or the other 
customers at 1985 Freddy Fazbear’s. 

“Yeah, we definitely need to bring you up to date,” Chip said. 

If you only knew, Oswald thought. 

“Hey, do you want to go play some games?” Mike said. “I feel the 
Skee-Ball calling me, but I promise I’1l go easy on you guys.” 

Chip laughed. “No, you won’t. You’l! murder us.” 

“You guys go ahead,” Oswald said. “I think I’Il just stay at the table.” 

“What, and watch the show?” Mike said, nodding in the direction of the 
creepy characters on the stage. “Is something wrong? If you’ve suddenly 
decided you like Freddy Fazbear’s music, we need to get you help fast.” 

“No, nothing’s wrong,” Oswald said, but really, something was. For his 
first few visits to 1985 Freddy Fazbear’s, it hadn’t even occurred to him 
that he was basically mooching off Chip and Mike’s generosity because he 
never had any money of his own. And even if he wasn’t broke in his own 
time zone, would the money he brought from the present day even work in 
1985? It was kind of pitiful, being broke in two decades. 

Finally he said, “I just feel like I’m always taking your money because 
I never have any.” 

“Hey, dude, it’s cool,” Chip said. “We hadn’t even noticed.” 

“Yeah,” Mike said, “we just figured your grandma never gave you any 
money. I know my grandma doesn’t except when it’s my birthday.” 

They were being really nice, but Oswald still felt embarrassed. If they 
had talked about his lack of money, that meant they had noticed it. “How 
about I just go hang out with you while you play?” Oswald said. 


When he stood up, he felt a strange heaviness in his pockets. Something 
in them was so heavy he felt like his jeans might fall down. He reached in 
his pockets and pulled out double handfuls of 1985 Freddy Fazbear’s game 
tokens. He produced handful after handful and dumped them on the table. 
“Or we could all play using these,” he said. He had no idea how to explain 
the magic that had just occurred. “I guess I forgot I was wearing these 
pants ... the ones that had all the tokens in them.” 

Chip and Mike looked a little confused, but then they grinned and 
started raking coins from the table into their empty soda cups. 

Oswald did the same. He decided just to go with the weirdness. He 
didn’t know how the tokens got there, but then again, he didn’t really 
know how he got there, either. 

In the morning, as Dad was driving him to the library, Oswald asked, 
“Dad, how old were you in 1985?” 

“T was just a couple years older than you,” Dad said. “And other than 
baseball, all I could think about was how many quarters I had to spend at 
the arcade. Why do you ask?” 

“No reason in particular,” Oswald said. “I’ve just been doing some 
research. Jeff’s Pizza—back before it was Jeff’s Pizza, it was some kind of 
arcade, wasn’t it?” 

“Yeah, it was.” Dad’s voice sounded strange, nervous maybe. He was 
quiet for a few seconds, then said, “But it closed.” 

“Like everything else in this town,” Oswald said. 

“Pretty much, yeah,” Dad said, pulling up in front of the library. 

Maybe it was Oswald’s imagination, but it seemed like his dad was 
relieved to get to their destination so he wouldn’t have to answer any more 
of his questions. 

At eleven o’clock sharp, Oswald headed over to Jeff’s Pizza, as had 
become his habit. With Jeff nowhere in sight, Oswald proceeded to the pit. 
After his count to one hundred, he stood. There were noises but not the 
usual ones of Freddy Fazbear’s. Screams. Crying children. Yells for help. 
The fast footfalls of people running. Chaos. 

Were Chip and Mike here? Were they okay? Was anybody here okay? 

He was afraid. Part of him wanted to disappear back into the pit, but he 
was worried about his friends. Also, he was burning with curiosity about 


what was going on, even though he knew whatever it was, it was horrible. 

He wasn’t in danger, he told himself, because this was the past, a time 
way before he was born. His life couldn’t be in danger in a time before he 
even existed, could it? 

His stomach in knots, he moved through the crowd, past crying mothers 
running with their toddlers in their arms, past dads grasping children’s 
hands and leading them swiftly toward the exit, their faces masks of 
shock. 

“Chip? Mike?” he called, but his friends were nowhere to be seen. 
Maybe they hadn’t come to Freddy Fazbear’s today. Maybe they were safe. 

Scared but feeling as if he had to know what was happening, Oswald 
walked in the opposite direction from everyone else with an escalating 
feeling of dread. 

In front of him stood the man in the yellow bunny costume ... if it was 
a man under there. The bunny opened a door that said PRIVATE and went 
inside. 

Oswald followed. 

The corridor was long and dark. The rabbit looked at him with blank 
eyes and an unchanging grin, then walked farther down the hall. Oswald 
wasn’t chasing the rabbit. He was letting the rabbit lead him, as if he were 
in a terrifying version of Alice in Wonderland, going down the rabbit hole. 

The rabbit stopped in front of a door with a sign reading PARTY ROOM 
and beckoned for Oswald to come inside. Oswald was shaking with terror, 
but he was too curious to refuse. Besides, he kept thinking, you cant hurt 
me. I haven t even been born. 

Once inside the room, it took Oswald a few seconds to register what he 
was actually seeing and a few more seconds for his brain to process it. 

They were lined up against the wall, which was painted with images of 
the place’s mascots: the grinning bear, the blue bunny, and the bird girl. 
Half a dozen kids, none of them older than Oswald, their lifeless bodies 
propped into sitting positions, their legs stretched out in front of them. 
Some of them had their eyes closed as if asleep. Others’ eyes were open, 
frozen in an empty, doll-like stare. 

They were all wearing Freddy Fazbear birthday party hats. 

Oswald couldn’t tell how they had died, but he knew the rabbit was 
responsible for it, that the rabbit had wanted him to see his handiwork. 


Maybe the rabbit wanted Oswald to be his next victim, to join the others 
lined up against the wall with their unseeing eyes. 

Oswald screamed. The yellow rabbit lunged for him, and he ran out of 
the room and down the black corridor. Maybe the rabbit could hurt him; 
maybe he couldn’t. Oswald didn’t want to hang around long enough to find 
out. 

He ran across the now-empty arcade toward the ball pit. Outside, the 
police sirens’ screams matched Oswald’s own. The rabbit ran after him, 
getting so close that a fuzzy paw brushed Oswald’s back. 

Oswald dove into the pit. He counted to one hundred as fast as he could. 

When he stood, the first thing he heard was Jeff’s voice. “There’s the 
little stinker!” 

Oswald turned to see his dad stomping toward him while Jeff looked 
on. Dad looked furious, and Jeff didn’t look happy, either—not that he 
ever did. 

Oswald stood frozen, too overwhelmed to move. 

His dad grabbed his arm and pulled him out of the pit. “What were you 
thinking hiding in that nasty old thing?” Dad said. “Didn’t you hear me 
calling you?” 

After Oswald was out, his dad leaned over the pit. “Look at how dirty 
this is. Your mother—” 

A pair of yellow arms reached out of the pit and pulled Dad under. 

The struggle would have been cartoonish if it hadn’t been so terrifying. 
Dad’s feet in their brown work boots kicked up to the surface, only to 
disappear below, then a pair of big fuzzy yellow feet appeared, only to 
disappear, too. The balls in the pit roiled like a stormy sea, and then they 
were still. The yellow rabbit rose from the pit, adjusted his purple bow tie, 
brushed off his front, and turned toward Oswald, grinning. 

Oswald backed away, but the rabbit was beside him, its arm firmly 
around Oswald’s shoulders, guiding him toward the exit. 

Oswald looked at Jeff, who stood behind the counter. Maybe Jeff would 
help him? But Jeff wore the same hangdog expression he always wore and 
just said, “See you later, guys.” 

How could Jeff—how could anyone—act like this situation was 
normal? 

Once the rabbit got him outside, it opened the passenger door of Dad’s 
car and pushed Oswald in. 


Oswald watched as the bunny buckled its seat belt and started the car. 
He tried to open the door, but the bunny had activated the power lock from 
the driver’s side. 

The bunny’s mouth was frozen in a rictus grin. Its eyes stared blankly. 

Oswald pushed the unlock button again even though he knew it 
wouldn’t work. “Wait,” Oswald said. “Can you do any of this? Can you 
even drive a car?” 

The bunny said nothing but started the car and pulled it into the street. 
It stopped at a red light, so Oswald figured it must be able to see and must 
know the basic rules of driving. 

“What did you do to my dad? Where are you taking me?” Oswald could 
hear the panic in his voice. He wanted to sound strong and brave, like he 
was standing up for himself, but instead he just sounded scared and 
confused. Which he was. 

The bunny said nothing. 

The car made a familiar right turn, then a familiar left into Oswald’s 
neighborhood. 

“How do you know where I live?” Oswald demanded. 

Still silent, the bunny turned into the driveway in front of Oswald’s 
ranch-style house. 

I'll run for it, Oswald thought. As soon as this thing unlocks the car 
door, I'll run to a neighbor's house and call the police once I’m safely 
inside. The locks clicked, and Oswald jumped out of the car. 

Somehow the bunny was standing right in front of him. It grabbed his 
arm. He tried to break free, but its grip was too strong. 

The bunny dragged Oswald to the front door, then yanked off the chain 
around Oswald’s neck that held his house key. The rabbit turned the key in 
the door and shoved Oswald inside. Then it stood in front of the door, 
blocking the exit. 

Jinx the cat wandered into the living room, took one look at the rabbit, 
arched her back, puffed out her tail, and hissed like a cat on a Halloween 
decoration. Oswald had never seen her act scared or unfriendly before, and 
he watched as she turned tail and fled down the hall. If Jinx knew this 
situation was bad, it must be really bad. 

“You can’t do this,” Oswald said to the rabbit, in tears. He didn’t want 
to cry. He wanted to look strong, but he couldn’t help it. “This—this is 


kidnapping or something! My mom will be home soon, and she’!l call the 
police.” 

It was a total bluff, of course. Mom wouldn’t be home until after 
midnight. Would he even be alive by the time Mom got home? Was his 
dad even alive now? 

He knew the bunny would grab him if he tried to make a run for the 
back door. “I’m going to my room now, okay? I’m not trying to escape. 
I’m just going to my room.” He backed away, and the bunny let him. As 
soon as he got inside his room, he slammed the door and locked it. He took 
deep breaths and tried to think. There was a window in his room, but it was 
high and too small to climb through. Under his bed, Jinx let out a low 
growl. 

Oswald could hear the bunny outside his door. If he made a phone call, 
it would hear him. But maybe he could send a text. 

He took out his phone and with shaking hands texted: Mom, 
emergency! Somethings wrong with dad. Come home now 

Oswald knew even as he texted that she wouldn’t be coming home now. 
Because she was always dealing with medical emergencies at work, 
sometimes it took her a long time to check her phone. It was Dad who 
Oswald was supposed to contact in the event of an emergency. But 
obviously that wasn’t going to work now. 

A miserable hour passed until Oswald’s phone vibrated. Afraid the 
rabbit might still be listening outside his locked door, he picked up 
without saying hello. 

“Oswald, what’s going on?” Mom sounded terrified. “Do I need to call 
nine one one?” 

“T can’t talk now,” Oswald whispered. 

“T’m on my way home, okay?” She hung up. 

Fifteen minutes seemed to pass more slowly than Oswald thought was 
possible. Then there was a knock on Oswald’s door. 

Oswald jumped, his heart in his throat. “Who is it?” 

“It’s me,” Mom said, sounding exasperated. “Open the door.” 

He opened the door just a crack to make sure it was really her. Once he 
let her in, he closed and locked the door behind them. 

“Oswald, you need to tell me what’s going on.” Mom’s brow was 
furrowed with worry. 


Where to start? How to explain without sounding crazy? “It’s Dad. He’s 
.. he’s not okay. I’m not even sure where he is—” 

Mom put her hands on both his shoulders. “Oswald, I just saw your dad. 
He’s lying on the bed in our bedroom watching TV. He made you a chicken 
potpie for dinner. It’s sitting on the stove.” 

“What? I’m not hungry.” He tried to wrap his mind around his mom’s 
words. “You saw Dad?” 

Mom nodded. She was looking at him like he was one of her patients 
instead of her kid, like she was trying to figure out what was wrong with 
him. 

“And he’s okay?” 

She nodded again. “He’s okay, but I’m worried about you.” She put her 
hand on his forehead as if checking for a fever. 

“I’m okay,” Oswald said. “I mean, if Dad’s okay, I’m okay. He just ... 
didn’t seem okay.” 

“Maybe it’s good school’s starting back. I think you’re spending too 
much time by yourself.” 

What could he say? Actually, I’ve been spending time with my new 
friends in 1985? “Maybe so. I probably should just go on to bed. I have to 
get an early start in the morning.” 

“T think that’s a good idea,” Mom said. She put her hands on his cheeks 
and looked him directly in the eyes. “And listen, if you’re going to text me 
at work, make sure it’s a real emergency. You scared me.” 

“T thought it was a real emergency. I’m sorry.” 

“Tt’s all right, honey. Get some rest, okay?” 

“Okay.” After Mom left, Oswald looked under the bed. Jinx was still 
there, crouched in a ball like she was trying to make herself as small and 
invisible as possible, her eyes wide and looking terrified. “It’s okay, 
Jinxie,” Oswald said, reaching under the bed and wiggling his fingers at 
her. “Mom says it’s safe. You can come out now.” 

The cat wouldn’t budge. 

Oswald lay awake in bed. If Mom said Dad was there and okay, then it 
must be true. Why would she lie? 

But Oswald knew what he had seen. 

He had seen the yellow thing, as he had started to think of it, drag his 
dad into the pit. He had seen the yellow thing climb out of the pit, had felt 
its grip on his arm, sat beside it in the car as it drove him home. 


Or had he? If Mom said Dad was home and okay, he must be. Oswald 
trusted his mom. But if Dad was okay, it meant Oswald hadn’t seen what 
he thought he saw. And that must mean that Oswald was losing his mind. 

After only a few hours of fitful sleep, Oswald woke to the aroma of frying 
ham and baking biscuits. His stomach rumbled, reminding him he had 
missed dinner last night. 

Everything felt normal. Maybe he should just treat yesterday like a bad 
dream and try to move forward. A new school year, a new beginning. 

He stopped in the bathroom, then made his way to the kitchen. 

“Feeling better?” Mom asked. There she was, her hair in a ponytail, 
wearing her pink fuzzy bathrobe, fixing breakfast just like always. 
Something about this fact made Oswald feel tremendously relieved. 

“Yeah,” he said. “I’m pretty hungry, actually.” 

“Now that’s a problem I can fix,” Mom said. She set down a plate with 
two ham biscuits on it and poured him a glass of orange juice. 

Oswald ate the first ham biscuit in three big bites. 

The yellow thing walked in and sat across from him at the breakfast 
table. 

“Uh ... Mom?” Oswald’s heart beat like a jackhammer in his chest. The 
ham biscuit sat heavy in his churning stomach. 

“What is it, hon?” Her back was turned as she fiddled with the 
coffeemaker. 

“Where’s Dad?” 

She turned around, the coffeepot in her hand. “Oswald, your dad is 
sitting right across from you! If this is some kind of elaborate prank, you 
can cut it out right now because it has officially stopped being funny.” She 
poured a cup of coffee and set it down in front of the yellow thing, which 
stared straight ahead, its mouth set in an unchanging grin. 

Oswald knew he wasn’t getting anywhere. Either he was insane or his 
mom was. “Okay, I understand. Pll cut it out. I apologize. May I be 
excused so I can get ready for school?” 

“Of course,” Mom said, but she was looking at him kind of funny again. 

Oswald stopped in the bathroom to brush his teeth and then went to his 
room to get his backpack. He peeked under his bed to find Jinx still hiding 
there. “Well, it’s good to know there’s somebody else in this family who 

has some sense,” he said. When Oswald came back into the kitchen, the 
yellow thing was standing by the door, car keys in its paw. 

“Is ... uh ... Dad taking me to school?” Oswald asked. He didn’t know 
if he could bear sitting beside it in the car again, hoping it was watching 
the road as it stared through the windshield with its empty eyes. 

“Doesn’t he always?” Mom said. He could hear the worry in her voice. 
“Have a good day, okay?” 

Seeing no choice, Oswald got in the car beside the yellow thing. Once 
again, it locked all the doors from the driver’s side. It backed out of the 
driveway and passed a jogging neighbor, who waved at it just as if it were 
his dad. 

“T don’t understand,” Oswald said, on the edge of tears. “Are you real? 
Is this real? Am I going crazy?” 

The yellow thing said nothing, just stared at the road ahead. 

When it pulled up in front of Westbrook Middle School, the crossing 
guard and the kids at the crosswalk didn’t seem to notice that the car was 
being driven by a giant yellow rabbit. 

“Hey,” Oswald said before he got out of the car, “don’t bother picking 
me up this afternoon. Ill just catch the bus.” 

The school bus was a big yellow thing he could handle. 

Because it was some kind of cosmic law, the first person Oswald saw in 
the hall was Dylan, his tormentor. “Well, well, well, if it isn’t Oswald the 
Oc—” 

“Give it a rest, Dylan,” Oswald said, pushing past him. “I’ve got way 
bigger problems than you today.” 

It was impossible to concentrate in class. Usually Oswald was a pretty 
decent student, but how could he focus with his life and possibly his sanity 
falling apart? Maybe he should talk to someone, the school counselor or 
the school police officer. But he knew anything that came out of his mouth 
would sound dangerously crazy. How could he convince a police officer 
that his dad was missing if everybody who looked at the yellow thing saw 
Oswald’s dad? 

There was no one to help him. Oswald was going to have to figure out 
how to solve this problem himself. 

At recess he sat on a bench by the playground, grateful that he didn’t 
have to pretend to listen to a teacher and could just think. He couldn’t 
imagine how his life could get any weirder. The yellow thing seemed to 


think it was his father. This was weird enough, but why did everybody else 
think it was his father, too? 

“Do you mind if I share your bench?” It was a girl Oswald had never 
seen before. She had curly black hair and big brown eyes and was holding 
a thick book. 

“Sure, help yourself,” Oswald said. 

The girl sat on the opposite end of the bench and opened her book. 
Oswald went back to his confused, confusing thoughts. 

“Have you gone to this school for a long time?” the girl asked him after 
a few minutes. She didn’t look over at Oswald when she talked; she just 
kept staring at the pages of her book. Oswald wondered if this meant she 
was shy. 

“Since kindergarten,” Oswald said, and then, because he couldn’t think 
of a single other thing to say about himself, he asked, “What are you 
reading?” 

“Greek mythology,” she said. “Tales of heroes. Have you read much 
mythology?” 

“No, not really,” he said, feeling stupid immediately after. He didn’t 
want to give the impression that he was the kind of guy who never read 
books. In desperation, he added, “I love to read, though,” and then he felt 
even stupider. 

“Me too,” she said. “I’ve probably read this book a dozen times. It’s 
like a comfort book for me. I read it when I need to be brave.” 

The word brave struck a chord in Oswald. Brave was what he needed to 
be, too. “Why’s that?” 

“Well, the Greek heroes are super brave. They’re always doing battle 
with some kind of big monster, like the minotaur or the hydra. It kind of 
puts things in perspective, you know? No matter how bad my problems 
are, at least I don’t have to do battle with a monster.” 

“Yeah,” Oswald said, even though he was trying to figure out how to do 
battle with a monster—a yellow, long-eared monster—in his own home. 
He couldn’t tell this girl about the yellow thing, though. She would think 
he was crazy and would be leaving their shared bench in a hurry. “So you 
said you read that book when you need to be brave.” He was surprised he 
was having this conversation given the way his mind was racing. For some 
reason, this girl was easy to talk to. “I mean, it may be none of my 
business, but I was wondering why you needed to ... to be brave.” 


She gave a shy little smile. “First day at a new school, third day in a 
new town. I don’t know anybody yet.” 

“Yes, you do,” he said. He held out his hand. “I’m Oswald.” He didn’t 
know why he was offering his hand like he was some kind of businessman, 
but it felt like the right thing to do. 

She took his hand and shook it surprisingly firmly. “I’m Gabrielle.” 

Somehow, this was the conversation Oswald had needed to have. 

He took the bus home from school. When he came inside, the yellow thing 
was vacuuming the living room. 

He didn’t ask it any more questions. It wasn’t as if it could give him 
any answers anyway, and besides, if he was going to make his plan work, 
he was going to have to act like everything was normal. And as anybody 
who had seen him in the fourth-grade class play knew, acting was not one 
of his talents. 

Instead, he did what he was supposed to do when life was normal, when 
his real dad was vacuuming the living room. He got the feather duster out 
of the cleaning closet and dusted the coffee table, the end tables, and the 
lamps. He emptied the wastebasket and neatened the throw pillows on the 
couch. Then he went to the kitchen and took out the garbage and the 
recycling. Once he was outside, it was tempting to run, but he knew 
running was not the answer. If everybody saw the yellow thing as his dad, 
nobody would help him. 

The yellow thing would always catch him. 

He went back inside. 

His chores done, he walked right past the yellow thing. “I’m gonna go 
chill out a while before dinner,” he said, even though the possibility of 
relaxing in any way was unimaginable. He went to his room, but he didn’t 
close the door. Instead, he took off his shoes, sprawled on the bed, and 
started drawing in his sketchbook. He didn’t want to draw mechanical 
animals, but they seemed to be all he could draw. He shut his sketchbook 
and started reading a manga, or at least pretending to. Normal. The plan 
could only work if he acted like everything was normal. 

When the rabbit appeared in his doorway, he managed not to gasp. It 
beckoned for him the same way it had when it led him into the murder 
room at Freddy Fazbear’s, and he followed it into the kitchen. On the table 


was one of the grocery store pizzas his dad kept in the freezer, baked to a 
pleasing golden brown, and two glasses of the fruit punch Oswald liked. 
The pizza had already been sliced, which was a relief, because Oswald 
couldn’t imagine what he would have done if he had seen the thing holding 
a knife. Run screaming out into the street, probably. 

Oswald sat down at the table and helped himself to a slice of the pizza. 
He didn’t feel much like eating, but he knew he couldn’t act like anything 
was wrong. He took a bite of pizza, a sip of punch. “Aren’t you going to 
eat anything ... Dad?” he asked. It was hard calling the thing Dad, but he 
managed. 

The yellow thing sat across from him in silence with its unblinking 
stare and frozen grin, an untouched pizza slice on a plate in front of it 
beside an untouched glass of punch. 

Could it even eat? Oswald wondered. Did it need to? What was it 
anyway? At first he thought it was a guy in a suit, but now he wasn’t so 
sure. Was it some kind of highly sophisticated animatronic animal, or a 
real, flesh-and-blood giant bunny? He didn’t know which possibility was 
the most disturbing. 

With great effort, he finished his pizza slice and glass of punch, then 
said, “Thanks for dinner, Dad. I’m going to get a glass of milk and go do 
my homework now.” 

The yellow thing just sat there. 

Oswald went to the refrigerator. He checked to make sure the yellow 
thing wasn’t watching and poured some milk into a bowl. Once he was in 
his room, he didn’t close and lock the door because he wouldn’t if he were 
home with Dad. Normal. Normal so as not to arouse suspicion. 

He slid the bowl of milk under his bed where Jinx was still hiding. “It’s 
going to be okay, girl,” he whispered. 

He hoped he was right. 

He sat on his bed and in a few minutes heard Jinx lapping the milk. He 
knew from past experience that even when terrified, she couldn’t turn 
down dairy products. He made a halfhearted attempt at his homework, but 
he couldn’t concentrate. All he could think about was his dad. The yellow 
thing had dragged his dad into the pit and under the surface. Did this mean 
his dad was at Freddy Fazbear’s circa 1985, wandering around an arcade of 
games he had played as a kid? That was the most likely explanation, 
unless the yellow thing had killed— 


No. He couldn’t let himself think that. His dad was alive. He had to be. 
The only way to know was to go back into the pit. 

But first he was going to have to get out of the house without the yellow 
thing noticing. 

Oswald waited until dark, then waited some more. Finally, he grabbed 
his shoes and tiptoed out of his room and into the hall in his sock feet. The 
door to his parents’ bedroom was open. He sneaked a glance inside as he 
crept past. The yellow thing was lying on its back on his parents’ bed. It 
appeared to be staring at the ceiling. 

Or maybe it wasn’t staring. Maybe it was asleep. It was hard to tell 
since its eyes didn’t close. Did it even need to sleep? 

Holding his breath, he passed his parents’ room and tiptoed into the 
kitchen. If the yellow thing caught him, he could always say he was just 
getting a drink of water. The kitchen was the best escape route. The door 
there was less squeaky than the front door. 

He slipped into his shoes and pulled the door open slowly, inch by inch. 
When it was open just wide enough, he slipped through and shut it softly 
behind him. 

Then he ran. He ran through his neighborhood and past neighbors 
walking their dogs and kids riding bicycles. Some people looked at 
Oswald strangely, and he couldn’t figure out why. People ran in this 
neighborhood all the time. 

But then he realized he wasn’t running like he was doing it for exercise. 
He was running like something was chasing him. And it might be. 

It was a long way to Jeff’s Pizza on foot, and Oswald knew he couldn’t 
keep up this pace all the way there. He slowed to a walk after he was out of 
his neighborhood and chose to walk side streets instead of the more direct 
route so he’d be harder to follow. 

He was afraid Jeff’s Pizza might be closed by the time he reached it, 
but when he arrived, hot and out of breath, the lighted OPEN sign was still 
on. Inside, Jeff was at the counter, watching a ball game on TV, but 
otherwise the place was empty. 

“You know we just serve whole pizzas at night. No slices,” Jeff said in 
his usual monotone. As always, he looked exhausted. 

“Yeah, I just stopped by to get a soda to go,” Oswald said, his gaze 
roaming to the roped-off ball pit. 


Jeff looked a little puzzled, but finally said, “Okay, let me get a pie out 
of the oven, then I'll get it for you. Orange, right?” 

“Right. Thanks.” 

As soon as Jeff disappeared into the kitchen, Oswald ran to the back 
corner and dove into the pit. 

The familiar musty smell filled his nose as he sank beneath the surface. 
He sat on the pit’s floor. He counted to one hundred as he always did, even 
though he wasn’t sure it served any purpose in getting him to make the 
jump to Freddy Fazbear’s in 1985. He shifted on the pit’s floor and felt 
something solid press against his lower back. 

A shoe. It felt like the sole of a shoe. He scooted around and grabbed it. 
It was a boot, a steel-toed work boot like his dad used to wear to work at 
the mill and now wore to his job at the Snack Space. He moved his hand 
up a little. An ankle! An ankle in the kind of thick boot sock his dad liked. 
He crawled farther across the floor of the pit. The face. He had to feel the 
face. If it was some giant furry head like the yellow thing’s, he might 
never stop screaming. But he had to find out. 

His hand found a shoulder. He reached to the chest and felt the cheap 
fabric of a white undershirt. He was shaking as he reached higher. He felt 
an unmistakably human face. Skin and stubble. A man’s face. Was it Dad, 
and was he— 

He had to be alive. He had to be. 

Oswald had seen shows where people who had been in emergency 
situations suddenly developed amazing strength and found themselves 
able to lift the front end of a car or tractor. This was the kind of strength 
Oswald needed to find. His dad wasn’t a big man, but he was still a man 
and weighed at least twice as much as his son. He had to move his dad if 
he was going to save him. 

If this even was his dad. If this wasn’t some kind of cruel hoax set up 
by the yellow thing to trap him. Oswald couldn’t let himself think these 
thoughts, not if he was going to do what he had to do. 

He got behind the person, grabbed under his armpits, and pulled. 
Nothing happened. Dead weight, Oswald thought. No, not dead, please ... 
not dead. 

He pulled again, this time with more force, making a noise that was 
somewhere between a grunt and a roar. This time, the body moved, and 
Oswald pulled again, standing up and getting the person’s head and 


shoulders above the surface. It was his dad, pale and unconscious, but 
breathing, definitely breathing, and around them, not Freddy Fazbear’s in 
1985, but the normal, present-day weirdness of Jeff’s Pizza. 

How could Oswald get him out? He could call Mom. As a nurse, she 
would know what to do. But what if she thought he was crazy or lying? He 
felt like the Boy Who Cried Wolf. Or the Boy Who Cried Rabbit. 

He felt it before he saw it. The presence behind him, the awareness of 
something in his personal space. Before he could turn around, a pair of 
furry yellow arms locked around him in a fearsome embrace. 

He got his right arm free enough to jab his elbow into the yellow thing’s 
midsection. He got loose, but the thing was blocking the exit to the pit. He 
couldn’t get out of the pit by himself, let alone with his poor, passed-out 
dad. 

Acting more than thinking, Oswald charged at the rabbit with his head 
down. If he could just throw it off balance or knock it under the surface, 
maybe he could make it end up in 1985 Freddy Fazbear’s and buy Oswald 
and his dad some time to escape. 

He head-butted the yellow thing and knocked it into the ropes and 
netting that surrounded the ball pit. It stumbled a little, righted itself, and 
then, arms outstretched, lunged toward Oswald. It pushed Oswald against 
the wall of the pit. Its eyes dead as always, it unhinged its jaws to reveal 
double rows of fangs as sharp as scimitars. Mouth open freakishly wide, it 
lunged for Oswald’s throat, but he blocked it with his arm. 

Pain pierced Oswald’s forearm as the yellow thing sank its fangs into 
his skin. 

Oswald used his good arm to punch the rabbit hard in the face before 
the fangs pierced too deeply. Fangs. What kind of crazy rabbit had fangs? 

The thing’s jaws released their grip, but there was no time to survey the 
damage because the thing was lurching toward Oswald’s dad, its jaws wide 
open, like a snake about to swallow its unsuspecting prey. 

Its fangs were red with Oswald’s blood. 

Oswald elbowed the yellow thing aside and moved between it and his 
still-unconscious father. “You leave ... my dad ... ALONE!” he yelled, 
then used the netting to bounce off and clamber onto the yellow thing’s 
back. He hit its head with his fists, scratched at its eyes, which didn’t feel 
like a living creature’s eyes. The rabbit stumbled back into the netting and 


ropes, then grabbed Oswald’s arms and slung him hard off its shoulders 
and into the pit. 

Oswald fell headfirst under the surface, grateful that the bottom of the 
pit was soft. His arm was throbbing, his whole body was exhausted, but he 
had to get up. He had to save his dad. Like those ancient Greek heroes 
Gabrielle had told him about, he had to be brave and face the monster. 

Oswald rose unsteadily to his feet. 

Somehow, when it shook Oswald off, the yellow thing must have gotten 
tangled in the ropes and netting that lined the ball pit. A rope was looped 
around its neck, and it grasped the rope with its big paws, trying to get 
free. Oswald couldn’t understand why it was failing to free itself until he 
saw that the yellow thing’s feet weren’t touching the floor of the pit. The 
yellow thing was suspended from the rope, which was tied securely to a 
metal rod at the top of the ball pit. 

The rabbit had hanged itself. Its mouth was opening and closing like it 
was gasping for breath, but no sound came out. Its paws clawed 
desperately at the ropes. Its stare, still terrifying in its blankness, was 
aimed in Oswald’s direction, as if it were asking him for help. 

Oswald certainly wasn’t going to rescue it. 

After a few more seconds of struggling, the yellow thing was still. 
Oswald blinked. Hanging from the rope was nothing but a dirty, empty 
yellow rabbit costume. 

His dad’s eyes opened. Oswald rushed to his side. 

“T don’t understand why I’m here,” Dad said. His face was pale and 
unshaven, his eyes puffy with dark half-moons under them. “What 
happened?” 

Oswald debated what to say: You were attacked and left for dead by a 
giant evil rabbit who tried to replace you, and I was the only person who 
could see it wasn t you. Even Mom thought it was you. 

No. It sounded too crazy, and Oswald didn’t relish the idea of spending 
years in therapy saying, But the evil rabbit WAS real. 

Jinx was the only other member of the family who knew the truth, and 
being a cat, she wasn’t going to say anything in his defense. 

Besides, his dad had already suffered enough. 

Oswald knew it was wrong to lie. He also knew that lying was not a 
skill he had. When he tried, he always got all nervous and sweaty and said 


“uh” a lot. But in this situation, a lie might be the only way forward. He 
took a deep breath. 

“So, uh ... I hid in the ball pit to play a prank on you, which I shouldn’t 
have done. You came to look for me, and I guess you must’ve hit your 
head and lost consciousness.” Oswald took a deep breath. “I’m sorry, Dad. 
I didn’t mean for things to get so out of hand.” 

This part, at least, was the truth. 

“IT accept your apology, son,” Dad said. He didn’t sound mad, just tired. 
“But you’re right—you shouldn’t have done it. And Jeff really should get 
rid of this ball pit before he has a lawsuit on his hands.” 

“Definitely,” Oswald said. He knew he would never set foot in the pit 
again. He would miss Chip and Mike, but he needed to make some friends 
in his own time. His mind flashed to the girl on the bench at recess. 
Gabrielle. She seemed nice. Smart, too. They had had a good talk. 

Oswald reached for his dad’s hand. “Let me help you stand up.” 

With Oswald steadying him, Dad rose to his feet and let his son lead 
him to the exit of the ball pit. He paused to look up at the hanging yellow 
costume. “What is that creepy thing?” 

“T have no idea,” said Oswald. 

This, too, was the truth. 

They climbed out of the pit and walked through Jeff’s Pizza. Jeff was 
wiping the counter, still watching the ball game on the restaurant’s TV. 
Had he not seen or heard anything? 

Still holding Oswald’s hand—when was the last time he and his dad had 
held hands?—Dad lifted his son’s arm and looked at it. “You’re bleeding.” 

“Yeah,” Oswald said, “I must’ve scraped my arm when I was trying to 
pull you out of the pit.” 

His dad shook his head. “Like I said, that thing is a public safety issue. 
Just sticking up a sign saying KEEP OUT isn’t enough.” He let go of 
Oswald’s arm. “We’ll get your arm cleaned up at the house, and then your 
mom can dress the wound once she gets home from work.” 

Oswald wondered what his mom would say when she saw the fang 
marks. 

As they approached the front door, Oswald said, “Dad, I know I can be 
a pain sometimes, but I really do love you, you know.” 

Dad looked at him with an expression that seemed both pleased and 
surprised. “Same here, kiddo.” He ruffled Oswald’s hair. “But you do have 


terrible taste in science-fiction movies.” 

“Oh, yeah?” Oswald said, smiling. “Well, you have terrible taste in 
music. And you like boring ice cream.” 

Together, they opened the door into the fresh night air. 

Behind them, Jeff called, “Hey, kid! You forgot your soda!” 


lat and fat. Those were the two words that Sarah thought of when she 
looked in the mirror. Which she did a lot. 

How could somebody with such a curved belly be as flat as an 
ironing board everywhere else? Other girls could describe their shapes as 
being like an hourglass or a pear. Sarah was shaped like a potato. Looking 
at her bulbous nose, her prominent ears, and how all her parts seemed 
stuck onto her body at random, she was reminded of the Mrs. Mix-and- 
Match doll she had as a kid. The one with different eyes, ears, noses, 
mouths, and other body parts you could stick on her to make her look as 
hilarious as you wanted. And so that was the nickname she came up with 
for herself: Mrs. Mix-and-Match. 

But at least Mrs. Mix-and-Match had Mr. Mix-and- Match. Unlike the 
girls at school whom she called the Beautifuls, Sarah didn’t have a 
boyfriend or any prospect of one. Sure, there was one boy she looked at, 
dreamed of, but she knew he wasn’t looking at or dreaming of her. She 
guessed that she, like Mrs. Mix-and-Match in her single days, would just 
have to wait around until some equally unfortunate-looking guy came 
along. 

But in the meantime, she needed to finish getting ready for school. 

Still looking at her worst enemy, the mirror, she applied some mascara 
and pink-tinted lip balm. For her birthday, her mom had finally given her 
permission to wear a little light makeup. She gave her dull, mousy brown 
hair a thorough brushing. She sighed. It was as good as it was going to get. 
And it wasn’t good. 

The walls of Sarah’s room were decorated with photos of models and 
pop stars she had cut out of magazines. Their eyes were smoky, their lips 
full, their legs long. They were slender, curvy and confident, young but 
womanly, and their perfect bodies were wearing clothes Sarah couldn’t 
even dream of affording. Sometimes when she was getting ready in the 
morning, she felt as if these goddesses of beauty were looking at her with 
disappointment. Oh, they seemed to say, is THAT what you’re wearing? 
Or, No hope of a modeling career for you, sweetheart. Still, she liked 
having the goddesses there. If she couldn’t see beauty when she looked in 
the mirror, at least she could see it when she looked at the walls. 

In the kitchen, her mom was dressed for work in a long floral print 
dress, her salt-and-pepper hair long and loose down her back. Her mom 
never wore makeup or did anything special with her hair, and she had a 


tendency to put on weight around her hips. Still, Sarah had to admit that 
her mom had a natural prettiness she herself lacked. Maybe it skips a 
generation, Sarah thought. 

“Hey, cupcake,” Mom said. “I picked up some bagels. I got that kind 
you like with all the seeds. You want me to pop one in the toaster for 
you?” 

“No, PIl just have a yogurt,” Sarah said, though her mouth watered at 
the thought of a toasty Everything bagel slathered in cream cheese. “I 
don’t need all those carbs.” 

Mom rolled her eyes. “Sarah, those little yogurt cups you live on have 
just ninety calories in them. It’s a wonder you don’t pass out from hunger 
in school.” She took a big bite of the bagel she had fixed for herself. She 
had put the top and bottom together sandwich-style, and cream cheese 
squished out when she chomped it. “Besides,” Mom said, her mouth full, 
“you’re much too young to be worried about carbs.” 

And you’re much too old not to be worried about them, Sarah wanted to 
say, but she stopped herself. Instead, she said, “A yogurt and a bottle of 
water will be plenty to hold me over until lunchtime.” 

“Suit yourself,’ Mom said. “But I’m telling you, this bagel is 
delicious.” 

Unlike most mornings, Sarah actually made it to the school bus in time, so 
she didn’t have to walk. She sat by herself and watched YouTube makeup 
tutorials on her phone. Maybe on her next birthday Mom would let her 
wear more than mascara and BB cream and tinted lip balm. She could get 
what she needed to do some real contouring, to make her cheekbones look 
more pronounced and her nose less bulbous. Getting her brows done 
professionally would also really help. Right now she and her tweezers 
were fighting a daily battle against a unibrow. 

Before first period, as she got her science book out of her locker, she 
saw them. They strutted down the hall like supermodels doing a runway 
show, and everybody—everybody—stopped what they were doing to watch 
them. Lydia, Jillian, Tabitha, and Emma. They were cheerleaders. They 
were royalty. They were stars. They were who every girl in the school 
wanted to be and who every boy in the school wanted to be with. 

They were the Beautifuls. 

Each girl had her own particular brand of beauty. Lydia had blonde hair 
and blue eyes and a rosy complexion, while Jillian had fiery red hair and 
catlike green eyes. Tabitha was dark with chocolate-brown eyes and 
lustrous black hair, and Emma had chestnut hair and enormous doe-like 
brown eyes. All the girls had long hair—the better to flip luxuriously over 
their shoulders—and were slender but with enough curves to fill out their 
clothes in the bust and the hips. 

And their clothes! 

Their clothes were as beautiful as they were, all bought at high-end 
stores in big cities they visited on their vacations. Today they were all 
wearing black and white—a short black dress with a white collar and cuffs 
for Lydia, a white shirt with a black-and-white polka-dot miniskirt for 
Jillian, a black-and-white striped— 

“What are they, penguins?” A voice cut off Sarah’s admiring thoughts. 

“Huh?” Sarah turned to see Abby, her best friend since kindergarten, 
standing beside her. She was wearing some kind of hideous poncho and a 
long, loose floral-print skirt. She looked like she should be running a 
fortune-telling booth at the school carnival. 

“T said they look like penguins,” Abby said. “Let’s hope there aren’t any 
hungry seals around.” She made a loud barking sound, then laughed. 

“You're crazy,” Sarah said. “I think they look perfect.” 

“You always do,” Abby said. She was hugging her social studies book 
against her chest. “And I have a theory about why.” 

“You have a theory about everything,” Sarah said. It was true. Abby 
wanted to be a scientist, and all those theories would probably come in 
handy one day when she was working on her PhD. 

“You know how we used to play Barbies when we were little?” Abby 
asked. 

When they were little, Sarah and Abby had each had pink carrying 
cases filled with Barbies and their various clothes and accessories. They 
had taken turns carrying their cases to each other’s houses and had played 
for hours, stopping only for juice box and graham cracker breaks. Life had 
been so easy back then. 

“Yeah,” Sarah said. It was funny. Abby hadn’t changed much since 
those days. She still wore her hair in the same braids, still wore gold wire- 
framed glasses. The braces on her teeth and a few inches of height were 
the only differences. Still, when Sarah looked at Abby, she could at least 


see that the opportunity for beauty was there. Abby had a flawless coffee- 
with-cream complexion and startling hazel eyes behind those glasses of 
hers. She took dance classes after school and had a graceful, slender body, 
even if she hid it under hideous ponchos and other baggy clothes. Sarah 
had no beauty, and it tormented her. Abby had beauty, but didn’t care about 
it enough to notice. 

“My theory,” Abby said, getting animated the way she did when she 
was lecturing, “is that you used to love to play with Barbies, but now that 
you’re too old for them you need a Barbie substitute. Those empty-headed 
fashionistas are your Barbie substitute. That’s why you want to play with 
them.” 

Play? Sometimes it was like Abby was still a little kid. 

“T don’t want to play with them,” Sarah said, though she wasn’t sure 
this was exactly true. “I’m too old to want to play with anybody. I just ... 
admire them, is all.” 

Abby rolled her eyes. “What is there to admire? The fact that they can 
match their eye shadows to their outfits? If you’Il excuse me, I think [Il 
go on admiring Marie Curie and Rosa Parks.” 

Sarah smiled. Abby had always been such a nerd. A lovable nerd, but 
still, a nerd. “Well, you’ve never had much interest in fashion. I remember 
how you used to treat your Barbies.” 

Abby grinned back. “Well, there was the one I shaved bald. And then 
there was the one with the hair I colored green with a Magic Marker so she 
looked like some kind of crazy supervillain.” She wiggled her eyebrows. 
“Now if those teen queens would let me play with them that way, I might 
be interested.” 

Sarah laughed. “You’re the one who’s a supervillain.” 

“Nope,” Abby said, “just a smart aleck. Which is why I’m way more 
fun than those cheerleaders.” Abby gave a little wave and then hurried off 
to class. 

At lunch Sarah sat across from Abby. It was Friday, which was pizza 
day, and on Abby’s tray was one of the school’s rectangular pizza slices, a 
cup of fruit cocktail, and a carton of milk. School pizza wasn’t the best, 
but it was still pizza so it was pretty good. Too many carbs, though. Sarah 
had hit the salad bar instead and had gotten a green salad with low-fat 
vinaigrette dressing. She liked ranch a lot better than vinaigrette, but ranch 
added too many calories. 


The other kids at the table were the nerds who hurried through their 
lunch so they could play card games until the bell rang. Sarah knew the 
Beautifuls called it the loser table. 

Sarah stabbed at her lettuce with her dull plastic fork. “What would you 
do,” she asked Abby, “if you had a million dollars?” 

Abby grinned. “Oh, that’s easy. First ’d—” 

“Wait,” Sarah said because she knew the kind of thing Abby was going 
to say. “You’re not allowed to say you’d give it to the Humane Society or 
the homeless or whatever. The money’s just to spend on yourself.” 

Abby smiled. “And since it’s imaginary money, I don’t have to feel 
guilty.” 

“That’s right,” Sarah said, crunching on a baby carrot. 

“Okay.” Abby took a bite of pizza and chewed thoughtfully. “Well, in 
that case, I’d use it to travel. Paris first, I think, with my mom and dad and 
brother. We’d stay in a fancy hotel and go to the Eiffel Tower and the 
Louvre and eat at the best restaurants and stuff ourselves with pastries and 
drink coffee at fancy cafés and people-watch. What would you do?” 

Sarah pushed her salad around on her plate. “Well, I'd definitely get my 
teeth professionally whitened, and I’d go to one of those high-end salons 
and get my hair cut and colored. Blonde, but a realistic-looking blonde. I’d 
get skin treatments and a makeover with really good makeup, not the 
cheap drugstore kind. And I’d get a nose job. There are other cosmetic 
procedures I’d like to have, but I don’t think they’1] do them on a kid.” 

“And they shouldn’t!” Abby said. She looked shocked, like Sarah had 
said something really bad. “Seriously, you’d put yourself through all that 
pain and suffering just to change the way you /ook? I had my tonsils taken 
out, and it was horrible. I’Il never have another operation if I can help it.” 
She looked at Sarah intensely. “What’s wrong with your nose anyway?” 

Sarah put her hand to her nose. “Isn’t it obvious? It’s huge.” 

Abby laughed. “No, it’s not. It’s just a regular nose. A nice nose. And 
when you think about it, does anybody really have a beautiful nose? Noses 
are kind of weird. I actually like animal noses better than people noses. 
My dog has a really cute nose.” 

Sarah shot a glance over to the Beautifuls’ table. All of them had 
perfect tiny noses, adorable little buttons. Not a potato nose in the bunch. 

Abby looked over to the table where Sarah was looking. “Oh, the 
Penguins again? Okay, so the thing about penguins is they may be cute, but 


they all look alike. You’re a person, and you should look like an 
individual.” 

“Yeah, an ugly individual,” Sarah said, pushing away her salad plate. 

“No, a nice-looking individual who worries too much about her 
appearance.” Abby reached out and touched Sarah’s forearm. “You’ve 
changed a lot in the past couple years, Sarah. We used to talk about books 
and movies and music. Now all you want to talk about is how you don’t 
like the way you look and about all the clothes and hairstyles and makeup 
you wish you could afford. And instead of having pictures on your wall of 
cute baby animals like you used to, you’ve got pictures of all those skinny 
models. I liked the baby animals a lot better.” 

Sarah felt anger rising like bile in her throat. How dare Abby judge her? 
Friends were supposed to be the people who didn’t judge you. She stood 
up. “You’re right, Abby,” she said, loud enough that the other people at the 
table turned to look at her. “I have changed. I’ve grown up, and you 
haven’t. I think about adult things, and you still buy stickers and watch 
cartoons and draw horses!” 

Sarah was so angry that she marched off and left her tray on the table 
for somebody else to clean up. 

By the time school was over, Sarah had a plan. She wasn’t going to sit 
at the loser table anymore because she wasn’t going to be a loser. She was 
going to be as popular and as pretty as she possibly could be. 

It was amazing how quickly her plan fell into place. As soon as she was 
home, she dug in her dresser drawer where she kept her money. She had 
twenty dollars of birthday money from her grandma and ten left from her 
allowance. It was enough. 

The beauty supply store was just about a fifteen-minute walk from her 
house. She could get there and back and do what she needed to do before 
her mom got home at six. 

The store was brightly lit, with row after row of beauty products: 
brushes and curling irons, hair dryers, nail polish, and makeup. She headed 
for the aisle labeled HAIR COLOR. She didn’t have to have a million dollars 
to become a blonde. She could do it for around ten bucks and just look like 
a million. She selected a box marked PURE PLATINUM, decorated with a 
picture of a smiling model with long, luminous, white-gold hair. Beautiful. 

The woman at the checkout counter had obviously dyed, bright red hair 
and false eyelashes that made her resemble a giraffe. “Now if you want 


your hair to look like the picture, you’ Il have to bleach it first,” she said. 

“Bleach it ... how?” Sarah asked. Her mom used bleach and water to 
clean the floors sometimes. Surely this wasn’t the same thing. 

“You'll wanna get the peroxide that’s back on aisle two,” the cashier 
said. 

When Sarah returned with the plastic bottle, the woman looked at her 
with narrowed eyes. “Does your mama know you’re about to color your 
hair, hon?” 

“Oh, sure,” Sarah said, not making eye contact. “She doesn’t mind.” 
She didn’t know if her mom would mind or not. She guessed she would 
find out. 

“Well, that’s good, then,” she said, ringing up Sarah’s purchases. 
“Maybe she can help you. Make sure you get the color on good and even.” 

At home, Sarah locked herself in the bathroom and read the directions 
from the box of hair color. They seemed simple enough. She put on the 
plastic gloves that came with the hair dye kit, draped a towel around her 
shoulders, and worked the peroxide into her hair. She wasn’t sure how long 
to leave the peroxide on, so she sat on the edge of the bathtub and played a 
few games on her phone and watched some YouTube makeup tutorials. 

First her scalp started to itch. Then it started to burn. It burned as if 
someone had thrown a handful of lit matches into her hair. She quickly 
typed into her phone, “how long to leave peroxide in hair.” 

The answer that appeared was “no longer than 30 minutes.” 

How long had she left it in? She jumped to her feet, grabbed the 
detachable showerhead, turned the water on cold, leaned her head over the 
tub, and started spraying. The frigid water soothed her fiery scalp. 

When she looked in the bathroom mirror, her hair was stark white, like 
she had become an old woman way before her time. The bathroom stank of 
bleach, making her nose run and her eyes water. She cracked the window 
and opened the bottle of hair color. 

It was time to complete her transformation. 

She shook up the hair color ingredients in a squeeze bottle and squirted 
the mixture all over her hair and massaged it in. She set the alarm on her 
phone to go off in twenty-five minutes and settled in to wait. By the time 
her mom got home, Sarah was going to look like a whole new person. 

She played happily on her phone until the alarm buzzed, then rinsed off 
again with the detachable showerhead. She didn’t bother with the 


conditioner that came with the hair color kit because she was too anxious 
to see the results. She toweled off her hair and stepped over to the mirror 
to see the new her. 

She screamed. 

She screamed so loud that the neighbor’s dog started barking. Her hair 
was not platinum blonde but sewage green. She thought of Abby when 
they were little, coloring her Barbie’s hair with a green Magic Marker. 
Now she was that Barbie. 

How? How could she do something to make herself pretty and end up 
even uglier than before? Why was life so unfair? She ran to her room, 
flung herself onto her bed, and cried. She must have cried herself into a 
miserable sleep because the next thing she knew, her mom was sitting on 
the edge of the bed saying, “What happened here?” 

Sarah looked up. She could see the shock in her mom’s eyes. “I—I was 
trying to color my hair,” Sarah sobbed. “I wanted to be blonde, but I’m— 
Tigi 1 ee te 

“You’re green. I can see that,” Mom said. “Well, I would say there 
would be consequences from you coloring your hair without my 
permission, but I think you’re already experiencing some of those. You are 
going to clean up the bathroom, though. But for right now, we need to see 
what we can do to make you look less like ... a Martian.” She touched 
Sarah’s hair. “Oof! It feels like straw. Listen, put on your shoes. The hair 
salon at the mall should still be open. Maybe they can fix this.” 

Sarah put on her shoes and stuffed her moss-colored tresses under a 
baseball cap. When they got to the salon and Sarah yanked off the cap, the 
stylist gasped. “Well, it’s a good thing you called nine one one. This is 
definitely a hair emergency.” 

An hour and a half later, Sarah was back to having brown hair, now a 
few inches shorter because the stylist had to cut off the damaged ends. 

“Well,” Mom said, once they were in the car on the way home, “that 
was a big chunk of my paycheck. I probably should’ve just let you go to 
school with green hair. It would’ve served you right.” 


Sarah returned to school not in a blaze of platinum-blonde glory but as her 
usual mousy-brown self. Still, when lunchtime rolled around, she resolved 
that, even without blonde hair, she wasn’t going to sit at the loser table. 


She served herself from the salad bar, then walked right past where Abby 
was sitting. She didn’t need Abby to criticize her today. 

A knot formed in her stomach as she approached the Beautifuls’ table. 
They must have decided today was Jeans Day because they were all 
wearing cute skinny jeans with fitted jewel-colored tops and matching 
slip-on canvas shoes. 

Sarah sat down at the opposite end of the table, far enough away that 
she didn’t seem to be intruding but close enough that they could include 
her if they wanted. 

She waited a few minutes, expecting one of them to tell her to go away, 
but nobody did. She was relieved and hopeful, but then she realized that 
none of them even seemed to see her. They just kept right on with their 
conversation like she was invisible. 

“She did not say that!” 

“Oh, yes, she did!” 

“No!” 

“Yes!” 

“And then what did he say?” 

Sarah pushed her salad around on her plate and tried to follow the 
conversation, but she had no idea who they were talking about and she 
certainly wasn’t going to ask them. Probably they wouldn’t even hear her 
if she said something. If they couldn’t see her, they probably couldn’t hear 
her, either. She felt like a ghost. 

She picked up her tray and headed toward the trash can, desperate to get 
out of the cafeteria—desperate to get out of the whole school, really. But 
there was still seventh and eighth periods to suffer through, boring social 
studies and stupid math. Lost in her suffering, she bumped right into a tall 
boy, dumping the remains of her salad on his crisp white shirt. 

She looked up into the ocean-blue eyes of Mason Blair, the most 
perfect guy in school, the guy she always hoped might notice her. 

“Hey, watch where you’re going,” he said, picking a cucumber slice off 
his expensive designer shirt. The vinaigrette-covered vegetable had left a 
perfect oily circle in the middle of his chest. 

“Sorry!” she squeaked, then threw the rest of her salad—what Mason 
wasn’t wearing—into the trash and half ran out of the cafeteria. 

What a nightmare. She had wanted Mason to notice her, but not this 
way. Not as the ugly, clumsy girl with fried, frizzy brown hair who gave a 


new meaning to the words tossed salad. Why did everything have to go 
wrong for her? The Beautifuls never did anything stupid or clumsy, never 
humiliated themselves in front of a cute boy. Their beauty was like a suit 
of armor that protected them from life’s pain and embarrassment. 

When the school day finally dragged to an end, Sarah decided to walk 
home instead of taking the bus. Given how her day had been, she didn’t 
feel like she should take the risk of being with a big group of kids again. It 
would just be inviting disaster. 

She walked alone, telling herself she might as well get used to solitude. 
She was always going to be alone. She passed the Brown Cow, the ice- 
cream stand where the Beautifuls went with their boyfriends after school, 
laughing as they sat together at picnic tables, sharing milk shakes or 
sundaes. And of course the Beautifuls could scarf all the ice cream they 
wanted and not gain an ounce. Life was so unfair. 

To get to her house, Sarah had to walk past the wrecking yard. It was an 
ugly expanse of dirt filled with the destroyed corpses of cars. There were 
smashed-in pickup trucks, squashed SUVs, and vehicles that had been 
reduced to nothing more than rusted heaps of junk. She was sure that none 
of the Beautifuls had to pass a place so hideous on their way home. 

Even though the junkyard was horrible—or maybe because it was so 
horrible—she couldn’t help looking at it when she passed by. She was like 
a passing driver gawking at an accident on the side of the road. 

The car nearest the fence definitely fit into the “heap of junk” category. 
It was one of those big, old sedans that only very elderly people still 
drove, the kind of car Sarah’s mom called a land yacht. This yacht had 
seen better days. It had once been light blue, but now it was mostly rusty 
orange-brown. In some places the rust had eaten all the way through the 
metal, and the car’s body was so battered it looked like it had been 
attacked by an angry mob wielding baseball bats. 

Then she saw the arm. 

A thin, delicate arm was sticking out of the trunk of the car, its little 
white hand with fingers outstretched as if waving hello. Or waving for 
help, like someone who was drowning. 

Sarah burned with curiosity. What was the hand attached to? 

The gate was unlocked. Nobody seemed to be watching. After looking 
around to make sure no one was nearby, she stepped inside the wrecking 
yard. 

She approached the old sedan and touched the arm, then the hand. It 
was metal, from the feel of it. She found the handle on the trunk and 
pulled it, but the lever wouldn’t budge. The car was so dented and battered 
that the trunk wouldn’t open and close properly anymore. 

Sarah thought of the story a teacher had read to her class once in 
elementary school about King Arthur pulling a sword from a stone when 
nobody else could. Could she pull this doll—or whatever it was—from 
this wrecked vehicle? She looked around until she found a strong, flat 
piece of metal that could maybe work as a substitute crowbar. 

Sarah braced her foot against the car’s crumpled bumper, slid the metal 
inside the trunk door, and pried upward. The first time she tried, it didn’t 
give at all, but the second time, it flipped open and threw her off balance. 
She fell backward and landed on her butt in the dirt. She stood up to 
inspect the owner of the hand she had seen sticking out of the trunk. 

Was it a discarded doll, outgrown by some little girl and tossed in the 
trash to end up in the dump? The thought made Sarah sad. 

Sarah pulled the doll from the trunk and stood it up on its feet, though 
once she looked at it, she wasn’t sure do/l was the right word to describe 
it. It was a few inches taller than Sarah herself, and it was jointed so that 
its limbs and waist looked movable. Was it some kind of marionette? A 
robot? 

Whatever it was, it was beautiful. It had wide, green, long-lashed eyes, 
pink Cupid’s bow lips, and pink circles on its cheeks. Its face was painted 
like a clown’s, but a pretty clown. Its red hair was pulled up into twin 
pigtails on top of its head, and its body was sleek and silver, with a long 
neck, a tiny waist, and a rounded bust and hips. Its legs and arms were 
long, slender, and elegant. It looked like a robotic version of the gorgeous 
supermodels whose pictures hung on the walls of Sarah’s room. 

Where had it come from? And why would someone want to get rid of 
such a beautiful, perfect object? 

Well, if whoever put this thing in the dump didn’t want it, then Sarah 
did. She picked up the girl-shaped robot and found it surprisingly light. 
She carried it sideways, her arm around its delicate waist. 

At home, in her room, Sarah set the girl robot down on the floor. It was 
a little tarnished and dusty, as if it had been in the trash heap for a while. 
Sarah went to the kitchen and got a rag and a bottle of cleaner that was 
supposed to be safe for metal surfaces. She sprayed and wiped the front of 


the robot, inch by inch, from head to toe. The shininess made it even more 
beautiful. As Sarah got behind the robot to clean the other side, she 
noticed an on-off switch at the small of its back. After she finished wiping 
it down, she turned the switch position to On. 

Nothing happened. Sarah turned away, slightly disappointed. The robot 
was still cool to have, though, even if it didn’t do anything. 

But then a rattling sound made Sarah turn back around. The robot was 
shaking all over, like it was either going to rev up or break down entirely. 
Then it went still. 

Sarah resigned herself once more to the idea that the robot wasn’t going 
to do anything. 

Until it did. 

The robot’s waist pivoted, making its upper body move. It slowly raised 
its arms and then put them down. Its head turned to face Sarah, seeming to 
look at her with its big green eyes. 

“Hello, friend,” it said, in a slightly metallic-sounding version of a 
young girl’s voice. “My name is Eleanor.” 

Sarah knew the thing couldn’t be talking to her personally, but it felt 
like it was. “Hi,” she whispered, feeling a little silly for entering into a 
conversation with an inanimate object. “I’m Sarah.” 

“Nice to meet you, Sarah,” the girl robot said. 

Whoa. How had it said her name back to her? /t must have some pretty 
sophisticated built-in computer or something, Sarah thought. It was the 
kind of thing her brother might know about; he was in college majoring in 
computer science. 

The robot took a few surprisingly smooth steps toward Sarah. “Thank 
you for rescuing me and cleaning me up, Sarah,” Eleanor the robot said. “I 
feel as good as new.” She gave a pretty, feminine twirl, her short skirt 
billowing. 

Sarah’s mouth was hanging open. Was this thing capable of actual 
conversation, of actual thought? “Um ... you’re welcome?” she said. 

“Now,” Eleanor said, placing her cold, hard little hand on Sarah’s cheek. 
“You tell me what I can do for you, Sarah.” 

Sarah stared at the robot’s blankly pretty face. “What do you mean?” 

“You did something nice for me. Now I must do something nice for 
you.” Eleanor cocked her head like an adorable puppy. “What do you want, 
Sarah? I want to make your wishes come true.” 


“Uh, nothing, really,” Sarah said. It wasn’t the truth, but really, how 
could this robot make her wishes come true? 

“Everybody wants something,” Eleanor said, brushing Sarah’s hair 
away from her face. ““What do you want, Sarah?” 

Sarah took a deep breath. She looked at the images of models and 
actresses and pop stars on her walls. She might as well say it. Eleanor was 
a robot; she wouldn’t judge her. “I want ...,” she whispered, feeling 
embarrassed. “I want ... to be beautiful.” 

Eleanor clapped her hands. “To be beautiful! What a wonderful wish! 
But it is a large wish, Sarah, and I am petite. Give me twenty-four hours, 
and I will have a plan to start making this wish come true.” 

“Okay, sure,” Sarah said. But she didn’t believe for one minute that this 
robot had the ability to transform her looks. She couldn’t even quite 
believe that she was having a real conversation with it. 

When Sarah woke up the next morning, Eleanor was standing in the corner 
as still and lifeless as the other decorative objects in Sarah’s room, no 
more alive than the stuffed Freddy Fazbear she’d had on her bed since she 
was six. Maybe the conversation with Eleanor had just been a particularly 
vivid dream. 

That afternoon, when Sarah got home from school, Eleanor pivoted her 
waist, raised and lowered her arms, and moved smoothly over to Sarah. “I 
made you something, Sarah,” she said. Eleanor put her hands behind her 
back and produced a necklace. It was a chunky silver chain with a large, 
cartoonish silver heart pendant dangling from it. It was unusual. Pretty. 

“You made this for me?” Sarah said. 

“T did,” Eleanor said. “I want you to make me a promise. I want you to 
put this necklace on and never, ever take it off. Do you promise you’ll 
keep it on, always?” 

“I promise,” Sarah said. “Thank you for making it for me. It’s 
beautiful.” 

“And you will be beautiful, too,” Eleanor said. “Since your wish is so 
big, Sarah, I can only grant it a little at a time. But if you wear this 


necklace and keep it on, each morning when you wake up you’ll be a little 
more beautiful than the day before.” Eleanor held out the necklace, and 
Sarah took it. 

“Okay, thanks,” Sarah said, not believing Eleanor for a minute. But she 
put on the necklace anyway because it was pretty. 

“It looks good on you,” Eleanor said. “Now for the necklace to work, 
you have to let me sing you to sleep.” 

“Like, now?” Sarah asked. 

Eleanor nodded. 

“It’s early, though. Mom isn’t even home from work yet—” 

“For the necklace to work, you have to let me sing you to sleep,” 
Eleanor repeated. 

“Well, I guess I could take a little nap,” Sarah said, not entirely sure 
that she wasn’t already asleep and dreaming. 

“Get into bed,” Eleanor said, moving in her smooth stroll to the side of 
Sarah’s bed. Even though she was a robot, everything about Eleanor was so 
feminine and lovely. 

Sarah pulled back the covers and got into bed. Eleanor sat on the edge 
of the bed and stroked Sarah’s hair with her cold little hand. She sang, 


Go to sleep, go to sleep, 

Go to sleep, my sweet Sarah, 
When you wake, when you wake, 
All your dreams will come true. 


Before Eleanor sang the last note, Sarah was asleep. 

Sarah was usually groggy and grumpy in the morning, but this morning 
she woke up feeling great. Eleanor, she noticed, was standing still in the 
corner of the room in her inanimate object pose. Somehow Eleanor being 
there made Sarah feel safe, as if Eleanor were standing guard. 

Maybe Eleanor was just an inanimate object, Sarah thought as she sat 
up in bed. But then she reached up and felt the silver heart pendant 
hanging just below her throat. If the necklace was real, the talk she had 
with Eleanor must be real, too. As she moved her hand away from the 
necklace, she noticed something else. 


Her arm. Both her arms, actually. They were slimmer and more toned 
somehow, and their skin, which was usually sallow, was healthy and 
glowing. The dry patches of skin she was prone to had disappeared, and 
both arms were soft and smooth to the touch. Even her usually chapped 
elbows were as soft as kittens’ noses. 

And her fingers—as she touched her arms with them, they felt 
different, too. She stretched out her hands to inspect them. Her once 
stubby fingers were long, elegant, and tapered. Her formerly short, nubby 
nails were now longer than her fingertips and shaped in perfect ovals. 
Amazingly, they were also painted a gorgeous, soft pink, each nail like a 
perfect rose petal. 

Sarah ran to the mirror to give herself a full inspection. Same mix and 
match face, nose, and body, but now with a perfect pair of arms and hands. 
She thought of Eleanor’s words from last night: “Each morning when you 
wake up you’ll be a little more beautiful than the day before.” 

Sarah was definitely a little more beautiful. Was this the way it was 
going to work—that every morning a different part of her would be 
transformed? 

She darted to the corner where Eleanor was standing. “I love my new 
arms and hands! Thank you!” she said to the unmoving robot. “So, like, 
am I going to wake up every morning to one new part until I’m totally 
transformed?” 

Eleanor didn’t move. Her face kept the same painted-on expression. 

“Well, maybe I’ll just have to wait and see, huh?” Sarah said. “Thanks 
again.” She stood on tiptoe, kissed the robot on its cold, hard cheek, and 
then hurried to the kitchen for breakfast. 

Her mom was sitting at the table with a cup of coffee and half a 
grapefruit. “Wow, I didn’t even have to yell at you to get out of bed this 
morning,” Mom said. “What’s going on?” 

Sarah shrugged. “I don’t know. I just woke up feeling good. I slept well, 
I guess.” She poured some cornflakes in a bowl and drenched them with 
milk. 

“Well, you were already passed out when I got home. I thought about 
waking you for dinner, but you were out like a light,” Mom said. She 
watched as Sarah shoveled in cereal. “And you’re eating real food, too. 
Would you like the other half of this grapefruit?” 

“Sure, thanks,” Sarah said. 


As she reached for the grapefruit, her mom grabbed her hand. “Hey, 
when did you let your nails grow out?” 

Sarah knew she couldn’t say “last night,” so she said, “Over the past 
couple of weeks, I guess.” 

“Well, they look fantastic,” Mom said, giving her hand a squeeze before 
she let it go. “Healthy, too. Have you been taking those vitamins I bought 
you?” 

Sarah hadn’t been but said yes anyway. 

“Good,” her mom said, smiling. “It’s definitely paying off.” 

After breakfast, Sarah selected a pink shirt that complemented her nail 
color and took some extra time with her hair and makeup. At school she 
felt a little less invisible. 

While she was in the restroom washing her hands, Jillian, one of the 
Beautifuls, came in. She checked her perfect face and hair in the mirror, 
then glanced down at Sarah’s hands. “Ooh, I love that polish,” she said. 

Sarah was so shocked she could barely manage to say “Thanks.” 

Jillian flounced out of the restroom, no doubt to join her popular 
friends. 

But she had seen Sarah. She had noticed Sarah, and she had liked at 
least one thing about her. 

Sarah smiled to herself for the rest of the day. 


Eleanor was mostly nocturnal. When the last of the winter daylight started 
to fade, she pivoted her waist, moved her arms up and down, and sprang to 
life. 

“Hello, Sarah,” she said in her tinny little voice. “Are you a little more 
beautiful today than you were yesterday, just like I promised?” 

“Yes,” Sarah said. She couldn’t remember ever feeling so grateful. 
“Thank you.” 

Eleanor nodded her head. “Good. And are you a little happier today 
than you were yesterday?” 

“T am,” said Sarah. 

Eleanor clapped her little hands. “Good. That’s what I want. To grant 
your wishes and make you happy.” 

Sarah still couldn’t quite believe this all was happening. “That’s really 
nice of you. But why?” 


“IT told you why. You saved me, Sarah. You pulled me out of the trash 
heap, cleaned me up, and brought me back to life. And so now I want to 
grant you wishes just like a fairy godmother. Would you like that?” Her 
voice, while metallic, also sounded kind. 

“Yes,” Sarah said. Who wouldn’t like a fairy godmother? 

“Good,” Eleanor said. “Then never, ever take off that necklace, and let 
me sing you to sleep. When you wake up you'll be a little more beautiful 
than you are today.” 

Sarah hesitated. She knew her mom had thought it was weird when she 
came home yesterday evening and found Sarah already asleep. If Sarah 
fell asleep early every night, her mom would worry that she was sick or 
something. Plus, there was the homework issue. If she stopped doing her 
homework, that, too, would arouse suspicion, both at home and at school. 

“T’ll let you sing me to sleep,” Sarah said. “But could it be in a few 
hours? I need to eat dinner with my mom and then do my homework.” 

“If you must,” Eleanor said, sounding a little disappointed. “But it is 
necessary that you let me put you to sleep as early as possible. It’s 
important that you get your beauty rest.” 

After a spaghetti dinner and an hour and a half of math and English, 
Sarah took a quick shower, brushed her teeth, and put on her nightgown. 
Then she approached Eleanor, who was standing still in her corner. 

“T’m ready,” Sarah said. 

“Then get in bed like a good girl,” Eleanor said. 

Sarah climbed under the covers, and Eleanor came to the bed with her 
rolling gait. She sat on the edge of the bed and reached out to touch 
Sarah’s heart-shaped pendant. “Remember to keep it on always and never, 
ever take it off,” Eleanor said. 

“T’11 remember,” Sarah said. 

Eleanor stroked Sarah’s hair with her cold little hand and sang her 
lullaby: 


Go to sleep, go to sleep, 

Go to sleep, my sweet Sarah, 
When you wake, when you wake, 
All your dreams will come true. 


Once again, Sarah fell asleep before she knew what hit her. 


She woke feeling refreshed, and when she stood up, she seemed to stand 
a little straighter, a little prouder, a little ... TALLER? 

She ran to the mirror and pulled up her nightgown to expose her legs. 

They were magnificent. She was no longer stubby Mrs. Mix-and-Match 
with legless feet stuck onto her dumpy body. Her legs were long and 
shapely, with toned calves and dainty ankles, a model’s legs. When she ran 
her hands over them, the skin was smooth and sleek. She looked down and 
noticed that the nails on her perfect, adorable toes were polished the same 
rosy pink as her fingernails. 

Sarah usually wore jeans to school, the better to cover her stubby limbs. 
But today she was going to wear a dress. She ran to her closet and took out 
a lovely lavender dress her mom had bought her last spring. She hadn’t 
liked the way it looked on her then, but now it showed off her long, 
shapely arms and legs. She slipped on some ballet flats and admired her 
reflection in the mirror. 

She still didn’t look exactly how she wanted to (that potato nose had to 
go, for one thing), but she was definitely making progress. She put on the 
little bit of makeup she was allowed to wear, brushed her hair, and went 
down to breakfast. 

Her mom was standing at the stove, stirring eggs in a pan. “Look at 
you! You’re a knockout!” Mom looked her up and down, smiling. “Is it 
picture day or something?” 

“No,” Sarah said, sitting down at the table and pouring herself a glass 
of orange juice. “I just felt like making an effort today.” 

“Is there somebody special you’re making an effort for?” Mom asked 
in a teasing tone. 

Sarah’s mind wandered for a moment to Mason Blair, but then the 
image turned into her bumping into him and covering him with salad. “No, 
just for me, I guess.” 

Mom smiled. “Wow, that’s really nice to hear. Hey, do you want some 
eggs?” 

Sarah felt a sudden, ravenous hunger. “Sure,” she said. 

Her mom dished up scrambled eggs and toast for each of them and then 
sat down. “I don’t know what it is,” Mom said, “but for the past couple of 
days you’ve just seemed so much more mature and easy to talk to.” She 
sipped her coffee and looked thoughtful. “Maybe you’d just been going 


through an awkward stage the last year or so, and you’re starting to 
outgrow it.” 

Sarah smiled. “Yes, I think that may be it.” The awkward stage was my 
entire life before I met Eleanor, Sarah thought. 

At school, Sarah saw Abby in the hall and felt a pang of missing her. 
The two of them had so much history together, going back to the days of 
finger paint and Play-Doh. But Abby was stubborn. If Sarah waited for 
Abby to apologize to her, it might never happen. 

She walked up to Abby at her locker. “Hey,” Sarah said. 

“Hey.” Abby dug around in her locker and didn’t make eye contact with 
her. 

“Listen,” Sarah said, “I’m sorry I said those mean things to you the 
other day.” 

Abby finally looked at her. “Hey, they weren’t wrong. I do still like 
cartoons and stickers and horses.” 

“Yeah, and there’s nothing wrong with that. Stickers and horses and 
cartoons are nice. And you’re nice. And I’m sorry. Friends?” She held her 
hand out, and Abby laughed and hugged her instead. 

When Abby pulled away from the hug, she looked Sarah up and down. 
“Hey, have you gotten taller or something?” 

There was no way she could explain it. “No, I’m just working on having 
better posture.” 

“Well, you’re definitely succeeding.” 

Eleanor had put Sarah to sleep with her usual sweet song the night before. 
This morning, still lying in bed, she looked at her body to see if she could 
tell which parts had gotten an upgrade. To her surprise, the parts of her that 
had been soft and flabby were now tight and toned, and parts that had been 
flat and childish were now rounded and feminine. 

Sarah chose a fitted T-shirt and a denim miniskirt to wear to school. 
Her pitiful little training bra wouldn’t hook anymore, so she made do with 
the sports bra she wore for gym class. It was a tight fit. 

At breakfast she asked her mom, “Can we maybe go shopping this 
weekend?” 

“Well, I get paid on Friday, so a little shopping wouldn’t be out of the 
question,” Mom said, pouring herself more coffee. “Anything in particular 


you’re looking for?” 

Sarah looked down at her chest, then grinned sheepishly. 

“Oh!” her mom said, sounding startled. “Well, those certainly snuck up 
on me. Of course we can buy you some bras that fit.” She smiled and 
shook her head. “I can’t believe how fast you’re growing up.” 

“Neither can I.” It was true. 

“It feels like it happens overnight,” Mom said. 

Because it does, Sarah thought. 

At school, Sarah could feel eyes on her. Boys’ eyes. For the first time, she 
felt noticed. She felt seen. It was dizzying. Exciting. 

In the hall on the way to English, a trio of boys—cute boys—looked at 
her, then looked at one another and whispered something, then laughed. 
But it wasn’t a mean or mocking laugh. 

Wondering what they’d said, Sarah looked back at them and bumped 
right into—no, it couldn’t be! Not again!—Mason Blair. 

She felt her face flushing and braced herself for him to tell her to watch 
where she was going ... again. 

But instead, he smiled. He had really great teeth, straight and white. 
“We have to stop bumping into each other like this,” he said. 

“Actually, I think it’s me bumping into you,” Sarah said. “At least I 
wasn’t carrying a salad this time.” 

“Yeah.” His smile was dazzling. “That was really funny.” 

“Yeah,” Sarah said, though it struck her as strange that he said the salad 
incident was funny now. When it had happened, he seemed annoyed. 

“Well, if you’re going to keep running into me, I at least need to know 
your name. I can’t just keep calling you Salad Girl.” 

“1’m Sarah. But you can call me Salad Girl if you want.” 

“Nice to really meet you, Sarah. I’m Mason.” 

“IT know.” She could’ve kicked herself. So much for playing it cool. 

“Okay, well, I’?Il see you around, Sarah the Salad Girl.” He gave her one 
last flash of a smile. 

“See you,” Sarah said. She continued on her way to English, but all she 
could think about was that she’d just had a conversation—a real, human 
conversation—with Mason Blair. 


Sarah sat down next to Abby in class. “Mason Blair just talked to me,” 
Sarah whispered. “Like talked-to-me talked to me.” 

“I’m not surprised,” Abby whispered back. “There’s something about 
you lately.” 

“What do you mean?” 

Abby crinkled her forehead the way she did when she was thinking 
hard. “I don’t know. I can’t exactly put it into words. It’s like you’re 
glowing from the inside out.” 

Sarah smiled. “Yeah, that is what it’s like.” But really, it was the 
changes on the outside that were making her glow inside. 

In the evening, after Eleanor did her wake-up movements, Sarah threw her 
arms around her. It felt strange to hug something so hard and cold, and 
when Eleanor’s arms encircled Sarah, she felt a flicker of what could have 
been fear, but she quickly pushed the feeling away. There was nothing to 
be afraid of. Eleanor was her friend. 

“Eleanor,” Sarah said, drawing back from the hug, “I couldn’t be 
happier with my new body. It’s perfect. Thank you so much!” 

“I’m glad,” Eleanor said, cocking her head. “All I want is for you to be 
happy, Sarah.” 

“Well, I’m loads happier than I was before I found you,” Sarah said. 
“Today it was like I could feel all these people seeing me. And they liked 
what they saw. The guy I’ve had a crush on for months even noticed me 
and talked to me.” 

“That’s wonderful,” Eleanor said. “I’m glad I’ve been able to make all 
your wishes come true, Sarah.” 

A dark cloud suddenly passed over the brightness of Sarah’s mood. 
“Well,” she said, “not all of them.” She reached up and touched her potato- 
y nose. 

“Really?” Eleanor sounded surprised. “What is it that you still wish, 
Sarah?” 

Sarah took a deep breath. “I love my new body,” she said. “I really do. 
But I’m kind of what some guys call pretty from afar, but far from pretty.” 

Eleanor cocked her head again. “Pretty from afar? I don’t understand, 
Sarah.” 


“Well, you know, guys will say, ‘She looks great from far away, but 
don’t get too close to her face.’ ” 

“Oh! Far from pretty!” Eleanor said. “I understand now.” She laughed, a 
metallic tinkling. “It is very amusing.” 

“It’s not if someone’s using it to describe you,” Sarah said. 

“IT suppose it isn’t,” Eleanor said. She reached up and touched Sarah’s 
cheek. “Sarah, do you really want me to change all this? Do you want a 
new face?” 

“I do,” Sarah said. “I want a tiny nose and full lips and high 
cheekbones. I want long, dark eyelashes and nice eyebrows. I don’t want to 
look like Mrs. Mix-and-Match anymore.” 

Eleanor laughed her tinkly laugh again. “I can do this for you, Sarah, 
but you have to understand, it’s a big change. You can look in the mirror 
and see longer legs or a curvier figure, and they just look like you’ve 
grown. Faster than expected, maybe, but still, growth is normal for a child. 
It is something you know will happen. All your life, though, you’ve looked 
in the mirror, seen your face, and said, ‘That’s me.’ It is true that your face 
changes some as you grow, but it is still recognizable as you. To see a 
totally different face as your reflection can be quite a shock.” 

“It’s a shock I want,” Sarah said. “I hate my face the way it is.” 

“Very well, Sarah,” Eleanor said, looking into her eyes. “As long as 
you’re sure.” 

After Sarah ate dinner with her mom and did her homework, she showered 
and got ready for Eleanor to put her to sleep one more time. But as she 
snuggled under the covers, a disturbing thought occurred to her. 
“Eleanor?” 

“Yes, Sarah?” She was already standing beside Sarah’s bed. 

“What will my mom think if I sit down to eat breakfast in the morning 
and I have a totally different face?” 

Eleanor sat down on the bed. “It is a good question, Sarah, but she 
won’t notice, not really. She may think you look especially rested or well, 
but she won’t notice that your plain face has been replaced by a beautiful 
one. Mothers always think their children are beautiful, so when your 
mother looks at you, she has always seen great beauty.” 


“Oh, okay,” Sarah said, feeling relaxed again. No wonder her mother 
didn’t understand her problems. She thought her daughter was already 
beautiful. “I’m ready, then.” 

Eleanor touched Sarah’s heart pendant. “And you remember—” 

“That I always have to wear it and can never, ever take it off. Yes, I 
remember.” 

“Good.” Eleanor stroked Sarah’s hair and sang one more time, 


Go to sleep, go to sleep, 

Go to sleep, my sweet Sarah, 
When you wake, when you wake, 
All your dreams will come true. 

Just like before, Sarah felt the changes before she saw them. As soon as 
she woke, she reached up and touched her nose. She felt not a potato-like 
bulb, but a pert little point. She ran her hands over the sides of her face 
and felt clearly defined cheekbones. She touched her lips and found them 
plumper than before. She hopped out of bed to take a look. 

It was amazing. The person looking back at Sarah was a totally 
different person than before. Eleanor was right: It was shocking. But it was 
a good kind of shock. Everything she had hated about her appearance was 
gone and had been replaced by absolute perfection. Her eyes were wide 
and a deeper blue and fringed with long, sooty lashes. Her eyebrows were 
delicate arches. Her nose was tiny and perfectly straight, and her lips were 
a pink Cupid’s bow. Her hair, while still brown, was fuller and shinier and 
fell into pretty, soft waves. She looked herself up and down. She smiled at 
herself with her straight, white teeth. Beautiful. She was the total package. 

She surveyed the clothes in her closet. None of them seemed worthy of 
her new beauty. Maybe when Mom took her shopping for bras, they could 
also pick out a few outfits. After a lot of deliberation, she finally chose a 
red dress she’d bought on a whim but could never find the courage to wear. 
Now, though, she deserved to be the center of attention. 

School was a totally new experience. She could feel everybody’s eyes 
on her, guys and girls alike. When she looked at the Beautifuls, who also 
happened to be wearing red today, they looked back at her, not with 
disdain, but with interest. 


At lunch, she mouthed hi at Abby, then walked straight to where the 
Beautifuls were sitting. This time she didn’t sit right down at their table 
but made a show of casually wandering past it. 

“Hey, New Girl,” Lydia called. “You want to sit with us?” 

She wasn’t remotely a New Girl to the school, but she was a New Girl 
in her looks. “Sure, thanks,” she said. She tried to sound casual, like it 
didn’t make any difference to her whether she sat with them or with 
somebody else, but inside she was so excited she was turning cartwheels. 

All the Beautifuls were eating salads just like she was. 

“So,” Lydia said, “what’s your name?” 

“Sarah.” She had hoped Sarah was a name they found acceptable. It 
wasn’t too bad. It wasn’t like Hilda or Bertha or anything. 

“T’m Lydia.” Lydia tossed her lustrous blonde hair. She was so pretty— 
pretty enough to be a model. She would fit right in with the pictures on the 
walls of Sarah’s room. “And this is Jillian, Tabitha, and Emma.” 

They needed no introduction, of course, but Sarah said “hi” like she had 
never seen them before. 

“So,” Lydia said, “who’s your dress by?” 

Sarah had watched enough fashion shows on TV to know Lydia was 
asking about the designer. “It’s from Saks Fifth Avenue,” she said. It was 
true. The label of the dress did read SAKS FIFTH AVENUE. However, Sarah 
and her mom had bought it at a local thrift store. Her mom was so excited 
when they found it. She loved thrifting. 

“How often do you get to New York?” Lydia asked. 

“Once or twice a year,” Sarah lied. She had been to New York once 
when she was eleven. She and her mom had seen a Broadway show, ridden 
a ferry to the Statue of Liberty, and gone up in the Empire State Building. 
They had done no shopping in fancy stores. The only clothing Sarah had 
bought was an I LOVE NEW YORK T-shirt at a souvenir shop. A few washings 
had worn it as thin as tissue paper, but she still slept in it sometimes. 

“So, Sarah,” Emma said, regarding her with doe-like brown eyes, “what 
do your mom and dad do for a living?” 

Sarah tried not to bristle visibly at the word dad. “Mom’s a social 
worker, and Dad—” Before her dad had left Sarah and her mom, he had 
been a long-distance truck driver. Now she wasn’t even sure what he did or 
where he lived. He moved a lot, changed girlfriends a lot. He called her on 
Christmas and her birthday. “He’s ... he’s a lawyer.” 


The Beautifuls nodded their approval. “One more question”—this came 
from Jillian, the redhead with the catlike green eyes. “Do you have a 
boyfriend?” 

Sarah felt her face heat up. “No, not at the moment.” 

“Well,” Jillian said, leaning forward. “Is there a boy you like?” 

Sarah knew her face had to be as red as her dress. “Yes.” 

Jillian smiled. “And his name is ... ?” 

Sarah looked around to make sure he wasn’t nearby. “Mason Blair,” she 
half whispered. 

“Ooh, he’s hot,” Jillian said. 

“Definitely hot,” Lydia echoed. 

“Hot,” the other girls repeated like a chorus. 

“So,” Lydia said, looking Sarah over. “Don’t follow us around like a 
puppy dog or anything, but if you want to sit with us at lunch, then sit. On 
Sunday afternoons we go to the mall and try on clothes and makeup, 
maybe get a froyo. It’s lame, but it’s something to do. This town’s sooo 
boring.” She yawned theatrically. 

“So boring,” Sarah agreed, but inside she was buzzing with excitement. 

Lydia nodded. “We’ll hang out a little and see how things go. If it works 
out, maybe you can go out for cheerleader next year. Consider this a trial 
period.” 

Sarah left the cafeteria smiling to herself. Abby caught up to her. 

“It looked like you were having some kind of intense job interview 
back there,” Abby said. She was wearing gray sweatpants with a bulky 
purple sweater that did nothing to show off her shape. 

“Yeah, kind of. They invited me to hang out, though, so I guess I passed 
the test.” She couldn’t stop herself from smiling. 

Abby raised an eyebrow. “And those are the kind of friends you want? 
The kind that make you pass a test?” 

“They’re cool, Abby. They know all about fashion and makeup and 
guys.” 

“They’re shallow, Sarah. They’re as shallow as a rain puddle. No, I take 
that back. They’re so shallow they make a rain puddle look like the 
ocean.” 

Sarah shook her head. She loved Abby, she really did, but why did she 
have to be so judgmental? “But they rule the school. That’s how it works. 
It’s the beautiful people who get what they want.” She looked at Abby’s 


gorgeous brown complexion, at her striking hazel eyes. “You could be 
beautiful, too, Abby. You’d be the prettiest girl in the school if you lost the 
glasses and braids and bought some clothes that weren’t so baggy.” 

“If I didn’t wear my glasses, I’d be walking into walls,” Abby said, 
with a little edge in her voice. “And I like my braids and my baggy 
clothes. Especially this sweater. It’s cozy.” She shrugged her shoulders. “I 
guess I just like myself the way I am. Sorry if I’m not fancy or fashionable 
enough for you. I’m not like the cheerleaders or all those models and pop 
stars whose pictures you have plastered all over your room. But you know 
what? I’m a nice person, and I don’t judge people on how they look or how 
much money they have, and I don’t have to give a person a pop quiz to 
decide if I’ll let them hang out with me or not!” Abby looked at Sarah’s 
face searchingly. “You have changed, Sarah. And not for the better.” Abby 
turned her back on Sarah and marched down the hall. 

Sarah knew Abby was a little mad at her. But she also knew an apology 
and a hug would fix things once she’d had time to cool down. 

After the bell, walking toward the school bus, Sarah became suddenly 
aware of a presence beside her. 

“Hi,” a male voice said. 

She turned to see Mason Blair, looking perfect in a blue shirt that 
brought out the color of his eyes. “Oh ... hi.” 

“So Lydia said you guys were talking about me in the cafeteria today.” 

“Well, I... uh...” Sarah fought the urge to run. 

“Say, if you don’t have anything else to do, do you want to go over to 
the Brown Cow and have a cone with me?” 

Sarah smiled. She could hardly believe her good luck today. “I don’t 
have anything else to do.” 

The Brown Cow was basically a little concrete block shed that sold 
soft-serve ice cream and milkshakes. It was right across the street from 
school, but Sarah usually resisted the temptation of stopping there since 
she had always been worried about her weight. 

She stood next to Mason at the counter where the same bored-seeming 
old lady always took orders. “Chocolate, vanilla, or swirl?” he asked her. 

“Swirl,” she said, making a move to open her purse. 

“No,” Mason said, putting up his hand. “I got it. It’s a cheap date. I can 
handle it.” 

“Thanks.” He had said date. It was a real date. Sarah’s first. 


They sat across from each other at a picnic table. Mason attacked his 
cone with gusto, but Sarah took tiny licks. She didn’t want to eat like a pig 
in front of Mason, and she was afraid of the ice cream dripping on her 
dress and making her look like a slob. Even with her self-consciousness, 
though, she had to admit the cold, creamy treat was delicious. “I haven’t 
had ice cream in ages,” she said. 

“Why’s that?” Mason said. “Watching your weight?” 

Sarah nodded. 

“No need to worry about that,” Mason said. “You look great. It’s funny. 
You’ve been going to this school a long time, right? I don’t know how I 
only just noticed you.” 

Sarah felt herself blushing. “You noticed me when I ran into you with 
that salad, right?” 

Mason looked at her with his dark-lashed, ocean-blue eyes. “I didn’t 
notice you then the way I should have. I clearly need to pay better 
attention.” 

“Me too,” Sarah said, “so I don’t keep plowing into people with trays of 
salad.” 

Mason laughed, showing those gorgeous white teeth. 

Sarah was amazed by how confident her new looks made her feel. She 
could eat ice cream with a cute guy and make jokes with him. The old 
Sarah would’ve been much too shy. Not that a cute guy would’ve asked the 
old Mrs. Mix-and-Match Sarah out for ice cream in the first place. 

Once they’d finished their cones, Mason said, “Hey, is your house 
pretty close? I could walk you back if you like.” 

Sarah felt a twinge of anxiety. Mason’s dad was a doctor, and his mom 
was a successful real estate agent whose face was plastered on billboards. 
His family probably lived in a mansion on the fancy side of town. She 
wasn’t ready for him to walk with her past the garbage dump to the plain 
little two-bedroom bungalow she shared with her living-from-paycheck- 
to-paycheck single mom. “Uh ... I actually have to run a couple of errands 
this afternoon. Maybe another time?” 

“Uh, sure. Okay.” Was it Sarah’s imagination, or did he look kind of 
disappointed? He looked down at his shoes, then back up at Sarah. “Hey, 
maybe we could go out for real some time. Pizza and a movie, maybe?” 

Sarah was pretty sure her heart had just turned a backflip. “I’d like 
that.” 


His expression brightened. “How about this Saturday night? If you’re 
free, of course.” 

Sarah fought the urge to laugh. Had there ever been a Saturday night 
when she wasn t free? All the same, she didn’t want to sound too eager. “I 
think so, yeah.” 

“Great. We'll plan on it, then.” 

Sarah couldn’t wait for Eleanor to wake up so she could tell her about her 
day. Finally, after what seemed like ages, Eleanor pivoted her waist and 
lifted her arms and said, “Hello, Sarah.” 

Sarah ran up to Eleanor and took both of her hands in hers. “Oh, 
Eleanor, I just had the best day of my life!” 

Eleanor turned her head. ““Tell me about it, Sarah.” 

Sarah flopped down on the bed and propped herself up on a pillow. “I 
hardly know where to start. The Beautifuls let me sit at their table at 
lunch, and then they invited me to meet them at the mall on Sunday.” 

Eleanor nodded. “That is good news, Sarah.” 

Sarah leaned forward and hugged the old Freddy Fazbear teddy bear on 
her bed. “And then Mason Blair took me for ice cream after school and 
asked me to dinner and a movie on Saturday!” 

“That’s very exciting.” Eleanor stepped closer to Sarah, bent at the 
waist, and touched Sarah’s cheek. “Is he a handsome boy, Sarah?” 

Sarah nodded. She couldn’t stop smiling. “Yes. Very.” 

“Are you happy, Sarah?” 

Sarah laughed and repeated, “Yes. Very.” 

“Have I given you everything you wished for?” 

Sarah couldn’t think of a single other wish. She was beautiful and 
perfect, and her life was beautiful and perfect to match. “Yes, you have.” 

“Then I have everything I wished for, too,’ Eleanor said. “But 
remember, even though all your wishes are granted, the necklace still has 
to stay on. You can—” 

“Never, ever take it off. I remember,” Sarah said. She was always 
tempted to ask Eleanor what would happen if she took it off, but part of 
her was afraid to know the answer. 

“Making you happy makes me happy, Sarah,” Eleanor said. 


Sarah felt tears welling in her newly beautiful blue eyes. She knew 
she’d never have a better friend than Eleanor. 

On Saturday, Sarah was a ball of nervous energy. From the moment she 
woke up, all she could think about was the date. At breakfast, she was too 
nervous to eat much even though Mom had made French toast, Sarah’s 
favorite. “You'll drive me to the pizza place and drop me at six, right?” 
she said. 

“Of course,” Mom said, flipping through the newspaper. 

“And you'll just drop me, right? You won’t walk in with me or 
anything?” 

Mom smiled. “I promise I will not endanger your relationship by 
letting your new beau catch a glimpse of my horrifying face.” 

Sarah laughed. “It’s not that, Mom. You’re really pretty, actually. It’s 
just that it looks kind of a little kiddish when your mom comes in with 
you, you know?” 

“I know,” Mom said, sipping her coffee. “I was fourteen, too, once, 
believe it or not.” 

“And did you ride your dinosaur when you went out on dates?” Sarah 
asked. 

“Sometimes,” Mom said. “But usually I’d just invite the boy over to 
hang out in the family cave.” She reached over and tousled Sarah’s hair. 
“Don’t be too much of a smart aleck, or I might decide I’m too old and 
decrepit to drive you tonight. Have you figured out what you’re going to 
wear?” 

At this question, Sarah let out a dramatic moan. “I can’t decide! I mean, 
it’s just pizza and a movie, so I don’t want to dress like it’s the most 
important event of my life. But at the same time, how I look is really 
important!” 

“So wear jeans and a nice shirt. You’re a beautiful girl, Sarah. You'll 
look great in whatever you choose.” 

“Thanks, Mom.” She remembered what Eleanor had said about mothers 
always thinking their children were beautiful. She knew that her mom 
would’ve said the same thing to her even before she got Eleanor’s help. 

When Sarah’s mom pulled into the parking lot of the Pizza Palazzo, 
Sarah’s stomach was so full of butterflies that she couldn’t imagine there 
would be any room for pizza. She knew she looked nice, though, so that 
was some comfort. 

“Text me when the movie’s over, and I’Il come get you,” Mom said. 
She reached over and squeezed Sarah’s hand. “And have fun.” 

“T’ll try,” Sarah said. Until recently, the idea of going out with Mason 
Blair would have been as realistic as the idea of her going out with a major 
pop star. It had been a fantasy, something she dreamed of but never 
imagined would come true. Why was she so nervous when this was 
something she’d wanted for so long? Maybe that’s what was making her 
nervous ... the fact that she wanted it so much. 

But when she walked through the doorway of the Pizza Palazzo and saw 
Mason waiting for her in front of the hostess’s station, she immediately 
felt more at ease. He stood up and flashed his gorgeous smile. “Hi. You 
look great,” he said. 

“Thanks.” She did think the turquoise top she’d chosen went well with 
her eyes. “You do, too.” He was dressed casually in a hoodie and a T-shirt 
for some video game, but he would look great in anything. 

After they got settled at one of the red leather booths with matching 
checked tablecloths, Mason picked up a menu and said, “So what kind of 
pizza person are you? Thin crust? Thick crust? Any favorite toppings?” 

“T’m a flexible pizza person,” Sarah said. Despite her earlier 
nervousness, she was actually starting to feel hungry. “I pretty much just 
like pizza in general. Except for one thing. No pineapple on pizza, ever.” 

“Agreed!” Mason said, laughing. “Pineapple on pizza is an 
abomination. It should be illegal.” 

“I’m glad we agree on that,’ Sarah said. “If we hadn’t, I probably 
would’ve just had to walk out of here and abandon you.” 

“And I would’ve totally deserved it,’ Mason said. “People who eat 
pineapple on pizza deserve to be alone.” 

They agreed on a thin-crust pepperoni and mushroom pizza, and they 
chatted comfortably about their families and their hobbies as they ate. 
Mason had a lot of interests, and Sarah realized she probably didn’t have 
enough of them. Before Eleanor, she had spent too much of her free time 
worrying about her appearance. Now that that problem was solved, she 
needed to branch out a little—listen to more music, read more books, 


maybe take up yoga or swimming. As a little kid, Sarah had loved 
swimming, but once she hit middle school, she was too self-conscious to 
let anybody see her in a swimsuit. 

By the time she and Mason walked next door to the movie theater, 
Sarah felt like they were getting to know each other pretty well. He wasn’t 
just cute. He was nice and funny, too. And in the dark theater, when he 
reached over and took her hand in his, it was the most perfect moment of a 
perfect night. 

When she got back home and was putting on her nightgown, Eleanor 
quietly strolled up behind her and put her hand on her shoulder. 

Sarah was startled but quickly recovered. “Hi, Eleanor,” she said. 

“Hello, Sarah. How was your date?” she asked. 

Sarah felt a smile spreading on her face just from thinking about it. “It 
was great,” she said. “He’s gorgeous, but I also really like him as a person, 
you know? He asked me if I wanted to go to the basketball game with him 
next week. I’m not interested in basketball, but I’m definitely interested in 
him, so I'll go.” 

Eleanor laughed her tinny giggle. “So tonight, was it everything you 
hoped it would be?” 

Sarah smiled at her robotic friend. “It was even better.” 

“I’m happy you’re happy,” Eleanor said, then moved back to her spot in 
the corner. “Good night, Sarah.” 


* kK  O® 


In the morning, Sarah found her mom in the laundry room. “Can you drive 
me to the mall to meet my friends this afternoon?” she asked. 

Mom looked up from unloading the dryer and smiled. “You’re quite the 
social butterfly this weekend. What time are you supposed to meet them?” 
She folded a towel and set it in the laundry basket. 

“They just said in the afternoon,” Sarah said. 

“That’s pretty vague, isn’t it?” Mom said, folding another towel. 

“T don’t know. The way they said it, I kind of felt like I should just 
know when they meant.” She was so shocked to be accepted, even on a 
trial period, by the Beautifuls that she was afraid to ask questions. 

“Your new friends expect you to be psychic?” Mom said. 

“You don’t like my new friends, do you?” Sarah said. 


“TI don’t know your new friends, Sarah. I just know they were girls who 
wouldn’t give you the time of day before, and now they’re suddenly 
inviting you to hang out with them. It’s kind of strange. I mean, what’s 
changed?” 

I’ve changed, Sarah thought. Just look at me. But she said, “Maybe they 
just finally decided I’m a likable person.” 

“Yeah, but what took them so long?” Mom said. “You know what friend 
of yours I like? Abby. She’s smart and she’s kind, and she’s 
straightforward. You always know where you stand with a person like 
Abby.” 

Sarah didn’t want to tell her mom that she and Abby weren’t speaking 
to each other currently, so instead she said, “Two o’clock. How about you 
take me to the mall at two o’clock?” 

“Okay.” Mom tossed at towel at her. “Now help me fold.” 


* ok ® 


Once Sarah got dropped at the mall, she realized that Lydia hadn’t said 
anything about where to meet them, either. The mall wasn’t that large, but 
it was big enough to turn searching for them into a fairly difficult game of 
hide-and-seek. She could text Lydia, she supposed, but it kind of felt like 
in order to be accepted by the group, she had to figure out the way they did 
things without making a nuisance of herself. If she was only accepted into 
the group on a trial period, she didn’t want to make any missteps. One 
false move and she would be back to eating lunch at the loser table. 

After a few moments of thought, she decided to head to Diller’s, the 
mall’s most expensive department store. The Beautifuls definitely 
wouldn’t be hanging out somewhere cheap. 

Her intuition was good. She found them at the front of the store in the 
cosmetics section, trying on lipsticks. “Sarah, you made it!” Lydia said, 
giving her a crimson-lipped smile. As soon as Lydia smiled at her, the 
other girls smiled, too. 

“Hi,” Sarah said, smiling back. She really had made it, hadn’t she? And 
not just to the mall. She had great looks; a gorgeous, nice boyfriend; and 
the friendship of the most beautiful girls in the school. She could never 
have predicted that her life would be this good. 

“Ooh, Sarah, you should try on this lipstick,” Jillian said, holding out a 
golden tube. “It’s pink with sparkles. It would look perfect with your skin 


tone.” 

Sarah took the tube, leaned over the makeup counter mirror, and 
smoothed on the lipstick. It really was pretty on her. It matched the rosy 
nail polish that never seemed to fade from her fingers and toes. “It looks 
like lipstick a princess would wear,” she said, studying her reflection with 
pleasure. 

“It really does,” Tabitha said, opening up a tube in a different color. 
“Her Royal Highness, Princess Sarah.” 

“You should totally get it,” Lydia said, looking at her approvingly. 

Sarah tried to subtly check the price on the lipstick packaging. Forty 
dollars. She hoped her shock didn’t show. That was more than she’d paid 
for the outfit she was wearing. But then again, she probably couldn’t buy 
lipstick in a thrift store. “Ill think about it,” she said. 

“Oh, go on,” Emma said. “Treat yourself.” 

“T want to browse around a little more first,” Sarah said, “since I just 
got here.” 

She didn’t want to admit that the only money she had in her purse was 
enough to cover a frozen yogurt and a soda. The Beautifuls, however, 
bought lipsticks and eye shadows and blush and brow pencils, whipping 
out wads of cash or their parents’ credit cards. 

After they finished at the makeup counter, they went to look at formal 
gowns because, as Lydia put it, “Prom’s just around the corner.” 

“Isn’t it just for juniors and seniors?” Sarah asked. 

“It’s for juniors and seniors and their dates,” Lydia said. “So if you can 
find a junior or senior to take you, then it’s just around the corner.” She 
nudged Sarah. “Too bad Mason’s not older.” 

“Yeah,” Sarah said. But she didn’t mean it. She liked Mason the age he 
was. Besides, she wasn’t sure she was ready to date an older guy. 

The dresses really were beautiful. They were the color of jewels: 
amethyst, sapphire, ruby, emerald. Some were sparkly, others were satin 
smooth and shiny, and others were translucent with lace and tulle. They 
took turns trying on dresses and modeling them in front of the mirror and 
taking pictures of one another with their phones. After half an hour of 
watching them with a sour expression on her face, a saleslady came over 
and asked, “Were you girls actually interested in buying anything, or are 
you just playing dress-up?” 

They ditched the dresses and fled the formal wear department, giggling. 


“T don’t think that saleslady liked us very much,” Jillian said as they 
walked out of the store. 

“Who cares?” Lydia said, laughing. “She doesn’t get to judge me. She 
just works in a store. She makes minimum wage if she’s lucky. I bet she 
can’t even afford to buy the clothes she sells.” 

They went to the food court and ate frozen yogurts and laughed about 
how naughty they’d been. “Do you girls intend to buy anything, or are you 
just playing dress-up?” Lydia said over and over again, mimicking the 
saleslady. 

They all laughed, and Sarah laughed right along with them, even though 
she thought they might have been a little hard on the saleslady, who was 
just trying to do her job. Jillian and Emma had left the dresses they’d tried 
on in crumpled piles on the dressing room floor. Now the saleslady 
probably had to clean up after them. 

But who was she to criticize the Beautifuls? It was an honor that they 
invited her out with them. It was glamorous and exciting, like she was a 
guest on a reality TV show. No matter what they said or did, she was happy 
just to be included. Yesterday her date with Mason had been perfect, and 
now she got to be out with the Beautifuls. How could she ever express her 
gratitude to Eleanor? Nothing she could say would ever be enough. 

That night, when Eleanor sprang to life, Sarah jumped up and hugged 
the robot’s hard little body. “Thank you, Eleanor. Thank you for a perfect 
weekend.” 

“You’re welcome, Sarah.” Eleanor hugged her back, and as always, the 
sensation was odd. There was no softness in her hug. “It’s the least I could 
do. You have given me so much.” 

Sarah settled down happily to sleep, but her rest was disturbed by a 
strange dream. She was on a date with Mason, sitting in the movie theater, 
but when he reached over to hold her hand, it was not his hand she grasped 
but Eleanor’s—tiny, white, metallic, and cold, the same hand she had 
grabbed to pull the robot girl out of the car trunk. When she turned to look 
at Mason in the seat next to her, he had changed into Eleanor. Eleanor 
smiled, revealing a mouthful of sharp teeth. 

In the dream, Sarah screamed. 

She opened her eyes to find Eleanor standing over her bed, her head 
lowered, staring at her with her blank green eyes. 

Sarah gasped. “Did I make a noise in my sleep?” 


“No, Sarah.” 

Sarah looked at Eleanor, who was standing so close to her bed that she 
was touching it. “Then what are you doing standing over my bed?” 

“Didn’t you know, Sarah?” Eleanor said, reaching out to brush back 
Sarah’s hair. “I do this every night. I watch over you. I keep you safe.” 

Maybe it was because of the dream, but for some reason, Sarah didn’t 
feel like letting Eleanor touch her. “Safe from what?” Sarah asked. 

“Safe from danger. Any danger. I want to protect you, Sarah.” 

“Uh, okay. Thanks, I guess.” She appreciated Eleanor’s concern, 
appreciated everything Eleanor had done for her, but still, it was creepy 
for someone to watch you when you didn’t know you were being watched 
... even if they were doing so with the best of intentions. 

“T can stand by the door if it makes you more comfortable, Sarah,” 
Eleanor said. 

“Yeah, that would be great.” Sarah was pretty sure she couldn’t fall 
back asleep with Eleanor standing right over her like that. 

Eleanor strolled over to the door and stood guard there. “Good night, 
Sarah. Sleep well.” 

“Good night, Eleanor.” 

Sarah didn’t sleep well. She didn’t know what, but something was 
wrong. 

In the cafeteria, Sarah stood in line with the other Beautifuls as they 
waited to empty their trays. Lydia had texted the night before saying 
they’d all be wearing their skinny jeans today, so Sarah was wearing hers, 
too. She’d bought the jeans and a few tops and a couple of pairs of cute 
shoes when her mom had taken her shopping the other week. They’d also 
bought a few bras that did her new figure justice. 

“Can you believe what she’s wearing? She dresses like a preschooler,” 
Lydia said. 

“Like a preschooler from a poor family,” Tabitha added. 

With horror, Sarah realized the girl they were criticizing was Abby, 
who was emptying her tray ahead of them. True, Abby was wearing pink 
overalls, so the preschooler comment wasn’t too far off the mark. But it 
seemed mean to reduce somebody’s whole value as a person to the clothes 
she wore. “That’s Abby,” Sarah heard herself saying. “She’s really nice. 


She’s been my friend since kindergarten.” She almost found herself saying 
best friend, but she stopped herself in time. 

“Yeah,” Lydia said, laughing. “But you’ve bought new clothes since 
kindergarten and she hasn’t.” 

The Beautifuls all laughed, too. Sarah tried for a smile, but she couldn’t 
quite manage it. 

When it was Sarah’s turn to dump her tray, she stepped on something 
slippery near the trash can. Her new shoes were cute, but they didn’t have 
much traction. The fall felt like it took forever, but she was sure it was 
only a matter of seconds. Then she was flat on her back, right in front of 
the whole school. 

“Sarah, that was hilarious!” Lydia said. “What a klutz!” She was 
doubled over, laughing. 

All the Beautifuls were laughing along with her, saying, “Did you see 
her go down?” and “She hit the floor like a ton of bricks” and “How 
embarrassing.” 

In Sarah’s dazed state, she couldn’t really tell which girl was saying 
what. Their voices sounded distant and distorted, almost as if Sarah was 
trying to hear them underwater. 

Sarah tried to pull herself up, but something strange was happening to 
her body. She heard weird clashing and clanging sounds and couldn’t 
figure out where they were coming from. It didn’t make any sense, but 
they felt like they were coming from inside of her. 

She was shaking and jerking, and she couldn’t make her body move the 
way it usually did. Her body was no longer under her control. She was 
scared. Had she hurt herself badly? Should somebody call her mom? Call 
an ambulance? 

And why were her new friends not helping her? They were still 
laughing, still joking about how stupid she looked and how funny it was. 

Then the Beautifuls’ laughter was replaced by screams. 

As if from a great distance, Sarah heard Lydia saying, “What’s 
happening to her? I don’t understand!” 

“I don’t know!” one of the other girls said. “Somebody needs to do 
something!” 

“Get a teacher, quick!” another one said. 

A terrible thought occurred to Sarah. She put her hand to her throat. The 
necklace Eleanor gave her—the necklace that was never, ever to be taken 


off—was gone. She must have knocked it off during the fall. She turned 
her head and saw it on the floor just a little more than arm’s length away. 
She had to get it back. 

A hand reached down to help her. Sarah looked up to see that the hand 
belonged to Abby. She took it and allowed herself to be pulled up into an 
awkward standing position. 

When Sarah looked down at her body, she saw the reason for the girls’ 
screams. Her body was changing. From the waist down, she was no longer 
a flesh-and-blood girl, but a jumbled collection of gears and bicycle 
spokes and hubcaps, rusted metal odds and ends. Cast-off, useless parts 
that belonged in a wrecking yard. 

She locked eyes with Abby and saw her friend’s horror at what she was, 
at what she had become. 

“I—I’ve got to go,” Sarah said. Her voice sounded different, metallic 
and harsh. 

Abby held out the necklace. “You dropped this,” she said. Tears 
sparkled in her eyes. 

“Thank you, Abby. You’re a good friend,” Sarah said. She didn’t say 
anything to the Beautifuls, who had all backed away from her and were 
whispering among themselves. 

Sarah grabbed the pendant and ran as fast as her new, shambling, 
makeshift metal legs would carry her out of the cafeteria and out of the 
school. Home. She had to get home. Eleanor would know what to do, 
would know how to help her. 

Sarah was still changing. Her torso was hardening, and when she ran 
she made squeaking noises like a door with hinges that needed oiling. She 
tried to fasten the necklace around her neck again, but her fingers had 
grown too stiff to manage the clasp. 

As she hurried down the sidewalk with a clattering, shambling gait, 
people stopped to stare at her. Drivers slowed down their cars to gawk. 
People didn’t look sympathetic or even just confused. They looked scared. 
She was a monster, like something that had been created by a mad 
scientist in a lab. It was only a matter of time until villagers started 
chasing her with pitchforks and torches. She felt lke crying, but 
apparently the kind of thing she was becoming was incapable of producing 
tears. Maybe tears would make her rust even worse. 


Her joints were getting stiffer and stiffer, and it was growing harder and 
harder to run. But she had to get home. Eleanor was the only one who 
could help her. 

Finally, after what seemed like hours, she reached her house. Somehow 
she managed to work the key in the door. She clinked and clanked through 
the living room and down the hall calling, “Eleanor! Eleanor!” Her voice 
was a terrible metallic scraping. 

Eleanor was not in her usual corner of Sarah’s room. Sarah searched the 
closet, looked under the bed, opened the chest at the foot of the bed. No 
Eleanor. 

Sarah clomped through the house, searching her mom’s room, the 
bathroom, the kitchen, all the time calling Eleanor’s name with her new 
horrible voice. 

The garage was the only place she hadn’t looked. She used the kitchen 
entrance, but doorknobs were getting difficult to manage. Finally, after a 
few desperate minutes of fiddling, she was in the darkened garage. 

“Eleanor!” she called again. Her jaw was stiff, and it was getting harder 
and harder to form words. Eleanor’s name came out as “Eh-nah.”’ 

Maybe the robot girl was hiding from her on purpose. Maybe it was 
some kind of joke or game. She looked at the ceiling-high storage cabinet 
against the back wall of the garage. It seemed like a good hiding place. 
With some difficulty, she grabbed the handle of the cabinet door and 
pulled. 

It was an avalanche. Clear plastic bags holding different objects with 
different weights and sizes toppled out of the cabinet and fell to the floor 
with a dull, sickening thud. 

Sarah looked at the floor. At first her brain couldn’t even process what 
she saw. One bag contained a human leg, another a human arm. They were 
not the body parts of an adult, and they didn’t appear to be the result of an 
accident. Blood pooled in the bottoms of the bags, but the limbs had been 
severed neatly, as if in a surgical amputation. Another bag, stuffed with 
bloody, snakelike entrails and what appeared to be a liver, slid from the 
cabinet’s shelf and landed on the floor with a wet splat. 

Why were there body parts in her garage? Sarah didn’t fully understand 
until she saw the small bag that held a familiar-looking, potato-shaped 
nose. She screamed, but the sound that came out of her was like the 
squealing of a car’s brakes. 


Behind her came a metallic, tinkling laugh. 

Sarah’s lower body was almost immobile, but she dragged herself 
around to face Eleanor. 

“T made your wish come true, Sarah,” the pretty robot said with another 
metallic giggle. “And in return ...” 

Sarah noticed something she’d never seen on Eleanor before, a heart- 
shaped button just below Eleanor’s throat that was a double of Sarah’s 
heart-shaped pendant. 

Eleanor laughed again, then pushed the heart-shaped button. She jerked 
and shook, but she also visibly softened, her silver finish turning the 
pinkish shade of Caucasian skin. In a matter of moments, she was a dead 
ringer for Sarah. The old Sarah. The real Sarah. The Sarah who, looking 
back on it, hadn’t been so bad-looking after all. The Sarah who had spent 
way, way too much time worrying about her appearance. 

Abby had been right. She had been right about a lot of things. 

Eleanor pulled on an old pair of Sarah’s jeans, one of her sweaters, and 
her tennis shoes. “Well, you certainly made my wishes come true,” Eleanor 
said, smiling with Sarah’s old smile. She pushed the button that opened the 
garage door. Sunlight flooded the room, and Eleanor-Sarah gave a little 
wave, then skipped out into the sunshine and down the sidewalk. 

Sarah’s ears filled with a deafening clinking and clanking. She couldn’t 
control her movements. Different rusted metal parts disconnected from 
her and fell clattering to the floor. She was falling apart, collapsing into an 
ugly trash heap, a hideous, useless collection of garbage to be thrown away 
and forgotten. In an old mirror propped up against the garage wall, she saw 
herself. She was no longer a pretty girl, or a girl at all. She didn’t resemble 
a human of any kind. She was nothing but a rusty, dirty pile of junk. 

She felt sad; then she felt scared. And then she felt nothing at all. 


1? 


hy if it isn’t Millie Fitzsimmons!” a deep, booming voice said. In the 

darkness, it was hard to tell exactly where it was coming from, but it 

felt like it was all around her. “Silly Millie, Chilly Millie, the ice- 
cold Goth girl who’s always dreaming of Death. Am I right?” 

“Who are you?” Millie demanded. “Where are you?” 

Above her, a large pair of terrifying blue eyes rolled backward, looking 
down into the chamber. 

“T’m right here, Silly Millie. Or maybe I should say you’re right here. 
You’re right inside my belly. In the belly of the beast, I guess you could 
Say.” 

“So ... you’re the bear?” Millie wondered if she had fallen asleep after 
she climbed inside the old robot, if she was dreaming. This was all too 
weird. 

“You can just think of me as a friend. Your friend till the end. We just 
have to decide if the end is going to be slow or quick.” 

“I—I don’t understand.” The space was starting to feel claustrophobic. 
She tried the door. It wouldn’t budge. 

“You'll understand very soon, Chilly Millie. You Goth girls crack me 
up ... all dressed like professional mourners, so serious all the time. 
Daydreaming about Death like he’s the lead singer of some boy band and 
that when you meet him it’ll be love at first sight. Well, Merry Christmas, 
Millie! I’m going to make your dreams come true. It’s not a question of 
‘if’ but ‘how.’ ” 

What was happening? She was definitely awake. Had she lost her mind, 
descended into madness like a character in an Edgar Allan Poe story? “I— 
I’d like to get out now,” she said. Her voice sounded small and shaky. 

“Nonsense!” the voice said. “You’re going to stay in here, all nice and 
cozy, while we work out how you’re going to have your dream date with 
Death. The choice is all yours, but it will be my pleasure to present you 
with some options.” 

“Options of how to die?” Millie felt the cold, metallic taste of fear in 
the back of her throat. Fantasies about death were one thing, but this felt 
like reality. 

Millie. What a stupid name. She was named after her great-grandmother 
Millicent Fitzsimmons. But Millie wasn’t the kind of name you saddled a 


person with. A cat or a dog, maybe, but not an actual human. 

Millie’s black cat was named Annabel Lee after the beautiful dead girl 
in the Edgar Allan Poe poem, which meant that Millie’s cat officially had 
a better name than she did. 

But, Millie thought, it made sense that her parents would come up with 
such a ridiculous name. She loved them, but they were ridiculous people in 
a lot of ways, flighty and impractical, the kind of people who would never 
think how hard elementary school would be for a little girl whose name 
rhymed with si/ly. Her parents flitted from job to job, from hobby to 
hobby, and now, it seemed, from country to country. 

Over the summer, Millie’s dad had been offered a one-year teaching job 
in Saudi Arabia. Her mom and dad had given her a choice: She could go 
with them (“It’ll be an adventure!” her mom kept saying) and be 
homeschooled. Or she could move in with her kooky grandpa for the year 
and start at the local high school. 

Talk about a lose-lose situation. 

After lots of crying and raging and sulking, Millie had finally chosen 
the Kooky Grandpa Option over being stranded in a foreign country with 
her well-meaning but unreliable parents. 

And so now Millie was here in her strange little room in Grandpa’s big, 
strange Victorian house. She had to admit, the idea of living in an old, 
sprawling 150-year-old house, where surely someone had to have died at 
some point, suited her well enough. The only problem was that it was 
filled to the brim with her grandparents’ junk. 

Millie’s grandpa was a collector. Lots of people have collections, of 
course—comic books or gaming cards or action figures. But Grandpa 
didn’t collect a specific type of thing so much as accumulate a lot of 
different things. He was definitely a collector, but a collector of what, 
Millie wasn’t sure. It all seemed very random. Looking around the living 
room, she could see old license plates and hubcaps hanging on one wall, 
old baseball bats and tennis rackets on another. A life-size suit of armor 
stood guard at one side of the front door, and a mangy-looking taxidermy 
bobcat stood at the other side, its mouth open and fangs bared in a 
menacing fashion. One glass case in the living room contained nothing but 
old porcelain baby dolls with tiny teeth and staring glass eyes. They were 
creepy, and Millie tried to stay away from them, though they still showed 
up sometimes in her nightmares with those little teeth chomping at her. 


Her new bedroom had been her grandma’s sewing room, and it still 
contained the old sewing machine even though her grandma had died 
before Millie was born. Grandpa had moved in a narrow bed and a dresser 
to accommodate Millie and her belongings, and she had tried to make the 
room her own. She draped the bedside lamp with a sheer black lacy scarf 
so it gave off a muted glow. She covered the dresser with dripping candles, 
and she hung posters of Curt Carrion, her favorite singer, on the walls. 

In one poster, the cover design for his album Rigor Mortis, Curt’s lips 
were peeled back to reveal a set of metal fangs. A perfect red bead of 
blood glistened on his chin. 

The trouble was, though, that no matter how much Millie tried to match 
the room’s decor to her personality, it never quite worked. The sewing 
machine was there, and the wallpaper was cream-colored and decorated 
with tiny pink rosebuds. Even with Curt Carrion’s fanged face glowering 
on the wall, there was something about the room that seemed sweet and 
old ladyish. 

“Soup’s on!” Grandpa called from the bottom of the stairs. This was 
how he always announced dinner, and yet he had never once served soup. 

“T’ll be there in a minute,” Millie yelled back. Not really caring 
whether she ate dinner or not, she dragged herself off the bed and made 
her way downstairs slowly, trying not to bump into or trip over any of the 
clutter that seemed to fill every square inch of space in the house. 

Millie met Grandpa in the dining room, where the walls were decorated 
with souvenir plates printed with the names and landmarks of different 
states he had visited with Grandma when she was alive. The opposite wall 
displayed replicas of antique swords. Millie wasn’t sure what those were 
about. 

Grandpa was every bit as weird as his collections. His wispy gray hair 
was always messy and wild, and he always wore the same ratty tan 
cardigan. He looked like he could play a wacky inventor in an old movie. 

“Dinner is served, madame,” Grandpa said, setting a bowl of mashed 
potatoes on the table. 

Millie sat at her place at the table and surveyed the visually disgusting 
meal: mushy-looking meat loaf, instant mashed potatoes, and creamed 
spinach that she knew had been packaged and frozen in a solid block until 
he zapped it in the microwave. It was a meal you could eat even if you 


didn’t have teeth, which, Millie supposed, went with the territory of 
having an old person cook for you. 

Millie loaded her plate with mashed potatoes since they were the only 
edible thing on the table. 

“Now make sure you get some meat loaf and spinach, too,” Grandpa 
said, passing her the bowl of greens. “You need the iron. You always look 
so pale.” 

“T like being pale.” Millie wore a sheer light powder to make her face 
look even paler in contrast to the black eyeliner and black clothing she 
favored. 

“Well,” Grandpa said, helping himself to meat loaf, “I’m glad you don’t 
bake yourself in the sun like your mother did when she was your age. Still, 
you could use a little color in your cheeks.” He held out the platter of meat 
loaf to her. 

“You know I don’t eat meat, Grandpa.” Meat was gross. And also 
murder. 

“Eat some spinach, then,” Grandpa said, spooning some out on her 
plate. “Plenty of iron in it. You know, back when I learned to do the little 
bit of cooking I can manage, it was all about meat: meat loaf, steaks, roast 
beef, pork chops. But if you’ll help me find some vegetarian recipes, I’Il 
sure try to cook ’em. It would probably be better for my health to eat less 
meat anyway.” 

Millie sighed and pushed the spinach around on her plate. “Don’t 
bother. It doesn’t really matter whether I eat or not.” 

Grandpa set down his fork. “Of course it matters. Everybody’s got to 
eat.”” He shook his head. “There’s no pleasing you, is there, girlie? I’m 
trying to be nice and figure out what you like. I want you to be happy 
here.” 

Millie pushed her plate away. “It’s a waste of energy to try to make me 
happy. I’m not a happy person. And you know what? I’m glad I’m not 
happy. Happy people are just lying to themselves.” 

“Well, if there’s nothing in store for you but misery, I guess you might 
as well go get started on your homework,” Grandpa said and ate his last 
bite of mashed potatoes. 

Millie rolled her eyes and flounced out of the room. Homework was a 
misery. School was a misery. Her whole life was a misery. 


In her miserable room, Millie opened her laptop and searched for 
“famous poems about death.” She reread her old favorites, “Annabel Lee” 
(the cat with the same name was curled up on her bed) and “The Raven” 
by Poe, then tried one she’d never seen before by Emily Dickinson. The 
poem talked about Death as a guy picking up a girl for a date. A date with 
Death. The thought made Millie light-headed. She thought of Death as a 
handsome, black-cloaked stranger choosing her as the one he would take 
away from the boredom and misery of everyday life. She imagined he 
looked just like Curt Carrion. 

Inspired, she grabbed her black leather journal and began to write: 


Oh, Death, show me now your ravaged face, 
Oh, Death, how I long for your chilly embrace. 
Oh, Death, my life is such a misery 

That only you can set me free. 


She knew poems didn’t have to rhyme, but Edgar Allan Poe and Emily 
Dickinson rhymed, so she rhymed her poem, too. Not bad, she decided. 

Sighing with dread of what lay before her, she closed her journal and 
took out her homework. Algebra. What use was algebra in the face of 
human beings’ inevitable mortality? None. Well, none except that if she 
didn’t pass all her classes, her parents would cut off the allowance that her 
grandpa doled out to her every week. And she was saving up for more jet 
mourning jewelry. She opened her algebra book, picked up her pencil, and 
began. 

A few minutes later, there was a knock on the door. 

“What?” Millie snapped and slammed her book shut, as if she’d been 
interrupted doing something she actually enjoyed. 

Grandpa nudged the door open with his foot. He was carrying a glass of 
milk and a plate of fragrant chocolate chip cookies. “I thought you might 
need a little study fuel,” he said. “I know chocolate always did the trick for 
me.” 

“Grandpa, I’m not a little kid anymore,” Millie said. “You can’t buy my 
happiness with a few cookies.” 

“Okay,” Grandpa said, still holding the plate. “You want me to take 
them away, then?” 

“No,” Millie said quickly. “Leave them.” 


Grandpa shook his head, smiled a little, and set the plate and the glass 
on Millie’s bedside table. “I’m going to putter around in my workshop for 
an hour or so, girlie,” he said. “Call me if you need anything.” 

“IT won’t need anything,” Millie said, turning back to her algebra 
homework. 

She waited until she was sure he was gone and then devoured the 
cookies. 

1°? 


“Options of how to die. Exactly!” the voice in the darkness said. “You’re 
catching on now, bright girl that you are. Now I'd call the first couple of 
options the lazy choices. They don’t require me to do anything but keep 
you here and let nature take its course. The advantage to these is that 
they’re easy-peasy for me but not so easy for you. Slow, with lots of 
suffering, but who knows? That might appeal to your morbid sensibilities. 
Lots of opportunities for languishing. You like languishing.” 

“What do you mean?” Millie asked. Whatever the answer was, she 
knew she wasn’t going to like it. 

“Dehydration is one option,” the voice said. “No water at all, and you 
could start dying in as few as three days or as many as seven. You’re 
young and healthy, so I’d put my money on it taking you a while. 
Depriving the body of water has fascinating effects. With no fluids coming 
in to filter and flush, the kidneys shut down and your body starts poisoning 
itself, making you sicker and sicker. Once those poisons have time to build 
up, you can suffer total organ failure or a heart attack or stroke. But that’s 
death for you. So glamorous. So romantic.” 

“Are you making fun of me?” The voice that came out of Millie was 
tiny and soft, the voice of a scared little girl. 

“Not at all, my dear. I like you, Millie, and that’s why I’m here to make 
your wishes come true. Like a genie, except you’re the one who’s trapped 
in a bottle.” The voice stopped to chuckle. “Starvation is another classic, 
too, but that’s really a slow-moving train. It takes weeks for the body to 
use up its stores of nutrition and break down all its proteins and turn on 
itself. It can take weeks. Some people have even lasted a couple of 
months.” 

Millie knew her grandpa would rescue her before she could starve to 
death. “That’Il never work. Grandpa comes in here to putter around after 


dinner every night. He’ll find me.” 

“How?” the voice asked. 

“He’ll hear me in here. I’1l scream.” 

“Scream all you want, lamb chop. It’s soundproof. No one will hear 
you. And anyway, after a few days, you’ll be too weak to scream.” 

Winter break was just one week away, and the whole school was decorated 
with wreaths, Christmas trees, and the occasional menorah. 

Millie didn’t know why people got so excited over holidays. They were 
just a desperate attempt to invent some happiness in the face of life’s utter 
meaninglessness. Well, they couldn’t fool her. People could wish her 
merry Christmas and happy holidays until they turned Santa Claus—red in 
the face, but she wouldn’t say it back. 

Not that people were going out of their way to wish Millie well. As she 
walked down the hall to the lunchroom, one blonde cheerleader—Millie 
didn’t even know her name—said, “I’m surprised to see you out in the 
daylight, Dracula’s Daughter.” The cheerleader looked over at her equally 
blonde friends, whom she’d been talking to more than she’d actually been 
talking to Millie, and they all laughed. 

The Dracula’s Daughter thing had started because she’d been carrying 
around a paperback copy of Bram Stoker’s Dracula, and one of the jocky 
popular guys had said, “Oh, look, how sweet. She’s reading a book about 
her dad.” 

From then on, she’d been Dracula’s Daughter. 

Of course everybody knew she was really Jeff and Audrey 
Fitzsimmons’s daughter, which made her almost as much of a misfit as she 
would have been if Dracula were her real dad. The Fitzsimmonses were 
kind of a joke in the town, famous for their tendency to start projects with 
great enthusiasm and then abandon them. They had bought a run-down but 
once-beautiful colonial house when Millie was ten and had thrown 
themselves into refurbishing it. They had kept it up for about three months 
until they ran out of time, money, and energy. As a result, the house had a 
weird patchwork quality—the living room and the kitchen were repainted 
and had new fixtures, but the bedrooms still had old, peeling wallpaper, 
and floors with squeaky boards. The bathroom pipes screamed when you 


turned on the water and the ancient tub, sink, and toilet never looked clean 
no matter how much they were scrubbed. 

The most talked-about thing, though, was the exterior of the house. 
Millie’s dad had repainted the front and one side a nice, soft blue with 
cream trim, but paint was expensive, painting was exhausting, and he 
really didn’t like getting up on ladders. As a result, the front of the house 
was painted beautifully, but the back and other side were still covered with 
old, flaking white paint. Millie’s mom said nobody would notice. It was 
like when people arranged the Christmas tree so the ugly side faced the 
wall. 

People noticed. 

People also noticed the Fitzsimmonses’ inability to keep a steady job. 
Millie’s parents were always coming up with some new scheme that 
finally was going to bring them the success of their dreams. One year her 
mom was making candles and selling them at the farmers market, while 
her dad started a nutritional supplement store that closed its doors after six 
months. After that, her mom and dad started a store that sold yarn and 
knitting supplies, and they might have made a go of it if either of her 
parents had known more about yarn and knitting. And then they bought a 
food truck, even though they were both terrible cooks. 

Millie couldn’t understand how her parents could remain so optimistic 
with failure after failure, but they did. They attacked each new project 
with huge enthusiasm, and then after a few months, both the project and 
the enthusiasm fizzled out. They weren’t poor, exactly—there was always 
food to eat, even if, toward the end of the month, it tended to dwindle to 
pancake mix and boxed macaroni and cheese—but there was always worry 
about how the bills would get paid. 

Millie knew that her grandpa helped them out some months. Her 
grandpa was also considered weird in town but was cut some slack because 
he was old and a widower and had been an excellent high school math 
teacher for many years. As a result, he earned the title of “eccentric” 
instead of “weird.” 

Some people said that maybe by taking this teaching job in Saudi 
Arabia, Jeff was finally getting it together and following in his dad’s 
footsteps. Millie knew, though, that her dad would fritter away this 
opportunity like he had so many others. 


So Dracula’s Daughter or Jeff and Audrey Fitzsimmons’s daughter? 
Either one was a one-way ticket to being a social outcast. 

In the cafeteria, Millie took a second to adjust to the deafening din of 
hundreds of teenagers talking and laughing. She walked past a table full of 
popular girls and saw her best friend from elementary school, Hannah, 
sitting with them, laughing at something all the other girls were laughing 
about. Millie and Hannah had been inseparable from kindergarten through 
fifth grade, playing on the swings or jumping rope together at every recess 
and playing dolls or board games at each other’s houses after school. 

But in middle school, popularity started to be more and more important 
to Hannah, and she drifted away from Millie and toward the crowd who 
was always giggling about clothes and boys. What Millie understood but 
Hannah did not was that those girls never accepted Hannah as more than a 
hanger-on. Hannah lived in a plain little house in a plain little 
neighborhood and didn’t have the money or social status to make the cut. 
The popular girls didn’t push her away, but they never let her into their 
inner circle, either. It made Millie sad that Hannah preferred to accept 
crumbs from the popular girls rather than real friendship from her. 

But then, a lot of things made Millie sad. 

Millie sat alone, nibbling on the egg salad sandwich and apple slices 
her grandpa had packed for her and reading Zales of Mystery and 
Imagination. She was managing to drown out all the cafeteria noise and 
focus on the story she was reading, “The Fall of the House of Usher.” 
Roderick Usher, the main character in the story, couldn’t bear noise of any 
kind. 

But then she felt herself being watched. 

She looked up from her work to see a lanky boy with horn-rimmed 
glasses and frizzy hair that had been dyed fire-engine red. Both his ears 
were studded with silver earrings. Millie coveted his black leather jacket. 

“Hi, um, I was wondering,’—he nodded at the chair across from Millie 
—“is anybody sitting there?” 

Was this guy asking to sit with her? Nobody ever asked to sit with her. 

“My imaginary friend,” Millie said. Wait ... was that a joke? She never 
joked with people. 

The boy grinned, revealing a mouthful of braces. “Well, would your 
imaginary friend mind if I sat in her lap?” 


Millie looked at the empty chair for a second. “She says, ‘Suit 
yourself.’ ” 

“Okay,” he said, setting his tray down. “Thanks. To both of you. I don’t 
really know anybody yet. I’m new.” 

“Nice to meet you, New. I’m Millie.” What, was she a comedian now? 

“My name’s Dylan, actually. I just moved here from Toledo.” He 
gestured toward her book. His fingernails were short but polished black. 
“A Poe fan, huh?” 

Millie nodded. 

“Me too,” Dylan said. “And H. P. Lovecraft. I love all the old scary 
writers.” 

“I’ve never read Lovecraft,” Millie said. Better to be honest than to try 
to fake knowledge and talk herself into a corner. “I’ve heard of him, 
though.” 

“Oh, you’d love him,” Dylan said, dunking a cafeteria-issued chicken 
nugget into a puddle of ketchup. “Super dark and twisty.” He looked 
around the cafeteria, his face a mask of disdain. “So is this school as lame 
as it seems?” 

“Lamer,” Millie said, marking her place in her book and shutting it. 
The House of Usher wasn’t going anywhere, and she couldn’t remember 
when she’d last had an interesting conversation. 

“Well, PI tell you what,” Dylan said, gesturing with a french fry. “So 
far you’re the only person I’ve seen here who seems cool.” 

Millie felt her face heating up. She hoped a blush wouldn’t pinken her 
pallor. “Thanks,” she said. “I, uh ... like your jacket.” 

“And I like your earrings.” 

She reached up to touch one of the black teardrops that dangled from 
her earlobes. “Thanks. They’re jet. Victorian mourning jewelry.” 

“T know,” Dylan said. 

He knew? What kind of high school guy knew about Victorian 
mourning jewelry? “I have a few pieces of it,” Millie said. “I mostly find 
them on eBay. I can’t afford my favorite kind, though, which is—” 

Dylan put up his hand. “Wait, don’t tell me. It’s the kind where they 
weave the hair of the dead person into the jewelry, right?” 

“Yes!” Millie said, shocked and amazed. “Those pieces show up 
sometimes on eBay, but they always cost a fortune.” 


The bell rang, signaling that lunch period was about to end. Dylan 
leaned toward Millie and half whispered, “Do not ask for whom the bell 
tolls.” 

“It tolls for thee,” Millie finished. Where had this guy come from? 
Toledo, sure, but how was he so sophisticated and knowledgeable? She had 
never met anyone like him. 

Dylan stood up. “Millie, it’s been a rare pleasure. Would you and your 
imaginary friend mind very much if I joined you two at lunch tomorrow?” 

Millie felt the corners of her mouth twitch in an unfamiliar way. “We 
wouldn’t mind at all,” she said. 

“See, I had thought about freezing you to death, too,” the voice said. “I 
thought I could short out the power in here so the space heater turns off, 
and my metal body can get pretty cold. But I figured your grandpa would 
come in and notice the power was out in his precious workshop and would 
fix it right away. So freezing to death is a no-go. Sorry if you had your 
heart set on that one, sweet pea.” 

Millie was shivering not from the cold, but from fear. “I don’t 
understand. Why do you want to kill me?” 

“Interesting you should ask,” the voice said. “There are a couple of 
reasons, actually. The first is quite simply that it’s something to do. I sat in 
a salvage yard for ages before your grandpa found me and brought me 
here, where I’ve just been sitting, too. I’m bored out of my skull. Not that 
I have a literal skull, but you know what I mean.” 

“Aren’t there other things you could find to do besides killing people?” 
Millie asked. Whatever this being was, it was obviously intelligent. Maybe 
she could reason with it. 

“None so interesting. And plus, there’s my second reason, which is that 
death is what you want. You’ve been mooning around since you moved 
here, talking about how you want to die. Well, I like to kill people, and you 
want to die. It’s a mutually beneficial relationship. Like those little birds 
that pick the parasites off rhinoceroses. The bird gets to eat, and the 
rhinoceros gets rid of the itchy little bugs. We both get what we want. 
Win-win.” 

Millie suddently realized that she had spoken of death, written about it, 
but it had always been just an interesting idea to play around with. She 


never intended to take any action to make it a reality. “But I don’t want to 
die. Not really.” 

A horrible rumbling sound surrounded Millie and shook the body of the 
machine that trapped her. It took her a few seconds to recognize the sound 
as laughter. 

For dinner, Grandpa made spaghetti with marinara sauce, garlic bread, and 
Caesar salad. It was much better than the meals he usually slung together. 

“You're actually eating tonight,” Grandpa said. 

“Because this is actually good,” Millie said, twirling spaghetti on her 
fork. 

“All right, ve finally found something you like to eat,” Grandpa said. 
“T’ 11 add it to my limited repertoire. I kept the sauce meatless for you and 
added meatballs to mine, so everybody’s happy, herbivores and carnivores 
alike.” 

“Well, ‘happy’ may be stretching it,” Millie said, unwilling to admit 
that she actually had kind of a good day. “But the spaghetti is good, and 
my day at school didn’t totally stink.” 

“And what made the day less stinky than usual?” Grandpa asked, 
spearing a meatball. 

“T met someone who seems kind of cool.” 

“Really? A girl someone or a boy someone?” 

Millie didn’t like Grandpa’s insinuating tone. “Well, not that it matters, 
but it happens to be a boy. Don’t try to turn it into some kind of love story, 
though. We just had a decent conversation, is all.” 

“A decent conversation is something, especially these days. Most 
people your age won’t look up from their phones long enough to say as 
much as ‘how do you do,’ ” Grandpa said. “Not to put the cart before the 
horse, but I met your grandma when I was just a little older than you are 
now.” 

“So what, now you have me engaged to this guy I just met? Grandpa, 
I’m fourteen!” 

Grandpa laughed. “You’re right that you’re much too young to be 
engaged. And your grandma and I didn’t get engaged when we were 
teenagers, either. But we were high school sweethearts, and then we went 
to the same college. We got engaged our senior year of college and 


married in June right after we graduated.” He smiled. “And it all started 
with a good conversation at lunch, like you had today, so you never know.” 

“Slow down, old man,” Millie said, fighting off a smile. 

Grandpa’s eyes went soft and misty. “I’m just reminiscing. I wish you 
could’ve known your grandma, Millie. She was really something special. 
And to lose her when she wasn’t even forty—” 

“It’s like ‘Annabel Lee,’ ” Millie said. 

“The Poe poem?” Grandpa asked. “ ‘It was many and many a year ago, 
in a kingdom by the sea ...’ Yes, I guess it was something like that.” 

“You know Poe?” Millie asked. It was weird to hear him recite one of 
her favorite poems. Grandpa was a math person; she didn’t expect him to 
know anything about poetry. 

“Believe it or not, I’m a pretty literate old dude. I like Poe and a lot of 
other writers, too. I know you like Poe because he’s dark and spooky, and 
it’s easy to romanticize death when you’re young and it’s so far away. But 
Poe didn’t write about death because he thought it was romantic. He wrote 
about it because he lost so many of the people he loved. You’ve never 
experienced that kind of loss, Millie. It ... changes you.” He blinked hard. 
“You know, for years after she died, friends were always trying to fix me 
up with other women, but it never worked. She was the only one for me.” 

Millie had never really thought about Grandpa’s feelings before. How 
he must have felt when Grandma got sick and died. How lonely he must 
have been after she was gone. How he might still be lonely now. “That 
must’ve been hard,” she said. “Losing Grandma.” 

Grandpa nodded. “It was. I still miss her every day.” 

“Well, thanks for dinner,” Millie said. “I guess I’d better get started on 
my homework.” 

“Without being asked?” Grandpa said, smiling. “This is certainly a 
special day.” 

In her room, Millie didn’t think of death. She thought of Dylan, and she 
thought about what Grandpa had said about Grandma. When she recited 
“Annabel Lee” in her head this time, it seemed like a poem about love 
instead of a poem about death. 

“Silly Millie, for someone who doesn’t want to die you sure spent a lot of 
time talking about it,” the voice surrounding her said. “But that’s the way 


of things, isn’t it? Talk is always easier than action.” 

“T think,” Millie said, sniffling, “that when I said I wanted to die, what I 
really wanted was to escape. I didn’t want death. I just wanted my life to 
be different.” 

“Oh, but that really takes action, doesn’t it?” the voice said. “Changing 
a life for the better, especially when the world is such a mean, rotten 
place? It’s much easier—and ultimately much more satisfying—just to 
snuff it out. Which brings me to my second set of options. Much more 
interesting ones. These are quick and easy for you for the most part, but 
they require a little more effort from me. I’m not complaining, though. 
There’s nothing I like more than a good challenge to relieve my boredom. 
Say, you like Dracula, don’t you?” 

Millie could barely find her voice to answer. “Why? Are you going to 
bite my neck?” 

“Now how would I do that with you in my belly, silly girl? I know that 
you’re a Dracula fan. The kids at school call you Dracula’s Daughter, don’t 
they? Well, what you might not know is that the character of Dracula was 
inspired by a real person, a prince named Vlad Dracula. But he’s better 
known by his nickname, Vlad the Impaler.” 

Millie’s insides seemed to turn to jelly. 

“Vlad killed thousands of his enemies, but his crowning achievement 
was creating a ‘forest of the impaled’ where thousands of his victims— 
men, women, and children—were skewered through stakes driven into the 
ground. Now I’m no prince and I can’t aspire to that level of achievement, 
but one little old impaling can’t be that hard, can it? I can just take one of 
my metal rods and drive it through my body cavity, and it’ll go straight 
through you and out the other side. If the spike goes through your vital 
organs, death comes quickly. If it doesn’t, there can be some hours of 
bleeding and suffering. The people who walked through the forest of the 
impaled talked about the moaning and gasping of the victims. So ... 
impaling! One might say other deaths im-pale in comparison!” The 
voice’s tone was cheery. “It can work quickly or slowly, but the result is 
the same in the end. Like I said, win-win.” 

“No,” Millie whispered. She wanted her mom and dad. She wanted her 
grandpa. They would help her if they only knew. She’d even settle for 
goofy Uncle Rob and Aunt Sheri as long as they would come to her rescue. 
She would even put on a Christmas sweater if it made them happy. 

Millie sat at her table in the cafeteria expectantly. She had taken special 
care with her appearance this morning, choosing a lacy black top and a jet 
Victorian mourning necklace from her small collection. Her face powder 
enhanced her pallor, and her black eyeliner had the perfect catlike effect. 

As minutes passed, she started to worry. What if Dylan didn’t show up? 
What if she had gotten all dressed up for nothing? What if, as she’d always 
suspected, life offered no possibility of pleasure or happiness? 

But then there he was, with his leather jacket and fire-engine red hair 
and shiny silver earrings. 

“Hey,” Millie said, trying not to sound like she was too happy to see 
him. 

“Hey,” he said, setting his tray on the table and sitting across from her. 
“T brought you something.” 

Millie’s heart pounded in excitement. She hoped she didn’t show it. 

He reached into the pocket of his leather jacket and pulled out a worn 
paperback book. “H. P. Lovecraft,” he said. “I was telling you about him 
yesterday.” 

“T remember,” Millie said, taking the book. “Zhe Call of Cthulhu and 
Other Stories. Did I say that right—Cthulhu?” 

“Who knows?” Dylan said. “H. P. Lovecraft made it up, and he’s dead 
so we can’t ask him. You can keep the book. I got a copy in hardcover for 
my birthday.” He grinned. “My parents are cool. They don’t mind that I 
like weird stuff.” 

“Thanks.” She felt a little smile creeping up on her. She slipped the 
book into her bag. 

She would certainly read the book, but it wasn’t the book itself that was 
making her feel all smiley. It was that Dylan had thought of her. While he 
was at home, not in her presence, he had thought of her, found the book, 
put it in his jacket pocket, and remembered to give it to her. In her 
experience, boys weren’t usually this thoughtful. 


* OK O& 


After dinner, in her room, Millie started reading the H. P. Lovecraft book. 
Dylan was right. It was weird. Weirder than Poe’s stuff, even, and scary in 


a way that made it feel like spiders were crawling beneath her skin. But 
she loved it. 

It was the perfect gift for Dylan to give her. Millie wasn’t a flowers- 
and-candy kind of girl. 

After she read a couple of stories, she opened her laptop. Instead of 
googling “poems about death,” she searched for “poems about love.” She 
found the famous one by Elizabeth Barrett Browning that began, “How do 
I love thee? Let me count the ways.” She had read the poem before and 
thought of it just as pretty words, but now she could appreciate the 
feelings behind the words, strong feelings for the rare person who truly 
understood you and whom you understood in return. 

She took out her black leather journal, chewed on her pen, and thought. 
Finally, she wrote, 


You clipped away the black thorny vines 
That twisted around my wounded heart 

So it could beat and feel relief from pain. 

You are the gardener who wakes the plants 
From the gray, chilly death of winter 

So that they can blossom again like my heart, 
A slow-blooming bloodred rose. 


She read the poem back to herself and sighed with satisfaction. Her 
mood only darkened slightly when she set her journal aside to start on her 
homework. 


* ok & 


“No? Pity. I always think impaling has a certain dramatic flair. Perhaps 
something with a little more zing? Electrocution is always an effective 
option. Did you know that the idea of the electric chair was developed in 
the 1800s by a dentist named Alfred P. Southwick? He came up with the 
idea of an electric chair based on his dental chair. That’s not exactly 
comforting to people with dental phobias, now, is it? I don’t have a chair 
to strap you into, but I do have the power to shoot a series of strong 
electrical currents through my body cavity. If the current zaps your heart 
or brain, you’ die quickly. If it doesn’t, you’ Il have some nasty burns, and 
your heart will go into fibrillation, which will generally kill you if you 


don’t have help. And I think we’ve already established that you don’t have 
anyone here to help you.” 

Help was a word Millie wanted desperately to scream, but she knew it 
was a waste of energy—energy she needed to conserve if she had any hope 
of survival. 

“So what do you think, cupcake? Electrocution? You’d be shocked at 
how effective it is. An electrifyingly good time!” Another chuckle. 

Millie had once experienced a shock unplugging a hair dryer from a 
wall socket in a badly wired hotel room. She had felt the electricity tear 
painfully up her arm and for a few moments was as out of breath as if 
someone had punched her in the stomach. She didn’t want to think about 
how an electric current strong enough to kill her would feel. “A good time 
for you but not for me,” she said. 


* Kk  O® 


On Saturday afternoon, when most other kids were at the mall or the 
movies or hanging out at one another’s houses, Millie walked downtown to 
the public library. It was about a twenty-minute walk, so the walk there 
and back with an hour or two of browsing and reading sandwiched in 
between was a pleasant way to spend a Saturday afternoon in solitude. 

Today, she roamed the library stacks looking for suitably dark reading 
material. She had finished The Call of Cthulhu and was disappointed that 
there weren’t any more books by Lovecraft on the shelves. 

“Hey,” a voice called behind her. 

She gasped and jumped, but then saw it was Dylan. 

“I didn’t mean to startle you,” he said. “Hey, did you read that 
Lovecraft book?” 

Millie couldn’t believe that the stars had aligned such that she had run 
into Dylan outside of school. “Yes, I loved it. I was kind of hoping they’d 
have more stuff by him here.” 

“Hmm ...,” Dylan said. “I bet I can pick something else you’d like. 
Give me a sec.” With a thoughtful expression, he scanned the shelves, then 
pulled out a thin book with a black cover and handed it to her. 

“The Lottery and Other Stories by Shirley Jackson,” she read. 

“Yup, you'll love her. It’s the perfect book to continue your classic 
horror pursuits. Hey,” he said. “I was reading at that table over there until I 
saw you. If you want to sit there and read, too, you can.” 


“Okay.” Millie worked hard not to show how happy this invitation made 
her. 

“I’ve got to admit I’ve got an ulterior motive inviting you,” Dylan said. 
“T want to see the look on your face once you finish reading the first short 
story in that book.” 

They sat at a table across from each other and read in companionable 
silence. Millie loved talking with Dylan, but being quiet with him was 
nice, too. She read “The Lottery” with a growing feeling of suspense, and 
when she got to the ending, Dylan laughed. 

“You’re reading with your mouth hanging open,” he said. “It’s the 
ultimate surprise ending, isn’t it?” 

“Tt really is.” 

“Say,” Dylan said. “I was thinking that after I check out my books, I 
might have a cup of tea at the café next door. Would you like to do that, 
too? I mean, you don’t have to drink tea just because I do. You can have 
coffee or hot chocolate.” 

“Tea sounds nice,” Millie said. This afternoon was turning out to be 
nice. Surprisingly so. 

Millie had passed You and Me Coffee and Tea hundreds of times but 
had never gone inside. It was a pleasant place with exposed brick walls 
displaying paintings by local artists. Sitting with Dylan over their 
steaming cups, Millie said, “I think I might like to be a librarian 
someday.” She had never told anyone this before. She’d always been afraid 
of getting laughed at. 

“That would be cool,” Dylan said. “You love books.” 

“T love books, and I love quiet,” Millie said, sipping her Earl Grey tea. 

“You should totally dress in a Goth librarian style, too,” Dylan said. 
“You could put your hair up and wear your jet jewelry and a black 
Victorian dress and those old-fashioned glasses that just clip onto your 
nose—what are they called?” 

“Pince-nez?” 

Dylan grinned. “Yeah, those. And when you dress like that and shush 
people in the library, it’1] scare the living daylights out of them!” 

Millie laughed, and she had to admit, it felt good. 


* Kk & 


School days were better when she knew she’d have lunch with Dylan. She 
could spend the morning looking forward to seeing him and the afternoon 
thinking about what they’d said to each other. Sometimes she felt a little 
silly for spending so much time thinking about a boy. 

But Dylan wasn’t just any ordinary boy. 

Today, when she got home from school, her grandpa met her in the 
cluttered living room. “I thought we might go to the school holiday bazaar 
tonight,” he said. Instead of his usual cardigan, he was wearing an ugly 
green pullover sweater decorated with creepy smiling Christmas trees. 

“The holiday bazaar is stupid.” Millie rolled her eyes. “Just a bunch of 
people selling ugly Christmas tree ornaments made out of Popsicle 
sticks.” 

“Oh, I always thought the bazaar was kind of fun when I was a teacher. 
This year there’s a chili supper and you can choose between meat and 
vegetarian chili. And there’s an all-you-can-eat cookie buffet. Think about 
those words for a minute, Millie.” He paused dramatically. “All you can 
eat. Cookie. Buffet.” 

“You've really done your homework on this, haven’t you?” Millie said. 
She would never say it out loud, but it was kind of cute how excited 
Grandpa was. 

“T have. I take cookies very seriously.” 

“T can see that.” Millie sighed. Maybe just this time she could let the 
old man have something he wanted. The two of them didn’t get out much, 
and it might be good for him to be among other people. “Okay, I guess I’ Il 
go even if it’s not my thing.” 

“Great!” Grandpa said. “We’ll leave in about an hour.” He looked her 
up and down. “Maybe you could wear something besides black? 
Something, you know, a little more festive?” 

“Don’t push it, Grandpa,” Millie said. She couldn’t believe she’d 
agreed to attend such a lame event. But maybe Dylan would be there— 
under duress, like her—and they could make fun of it together. 

The school halls were sparkly with Christmas lights, and Millie had 
been correct in predicting the ugliness of the ornaments for sale. But the 
vegetarian chili was tasty, and there was an impressive variety of cookies 
on the cookie buffet, including gingerbread, which was her favorite. After 
she and Grandpa ate their fill, she wandered the hallways, giving the 
impression of looking at the craft displays but really looking for Dylan. 


She found him in the second-floor hallway. But not in the way she 
wanted to. 

Dylan was standing in front of a booth selling reindeer Christmas 
ornaments made out of candy canes. But he wasn’t alone. He was with 
Brooke Harrison, a blandly pretty blonde girl who was in Millie’s U.S. 
government class. Dylan and Brooke were holding hands and laughing 
about some private joke in a very couple-ish way. 

Millie bit her lip to keep from gasping, turned around, and ran through 
the hall and down the stairs. She had to find Grandpa. She had to get out of 
there. 

“Where’s the fire, Dracula’s Daughter?” some random kid asked her. 
She didn’t even bother to process who it was. They were all the same 
anyway. 

She ran into the cafeteria, scanning the crowd for Grandpa’s ugly 
Christmas sweater. Unfortunately, a lot of people were wearing ugly 
Christmas sweaters. 

She finally found Grandpa next to the drinks table, sipping coffee and 
chatting with a couple of other old men who were also retired teachers. 
These guys apparently shopped at the same ugly Christmas sweater store 
as Grandpa. 

“We have to go,” Millie hissed at him. 

Grandpa knitted his brow in concern. “Are you sick or something?” 

“No, I just have to go.” Why wouldn’t he move faster? 

“Okay, honey.” He gave the other old guys a look that seemed to say, 
They’re so emotional at this age, and then said, “See you later, fellas. 
Merry Christmas.” 

In the car, Grandpa said, “What’s the matter, honey? Did somebody at 
the school say something that hurt your feelings?” 

Millie couldn’t believe her grandpa could be so stupid. “Nobody at 
school said anything to me because nobody at school ever says anything to 
me. Nobody at this school cares whether I live or die!” She stifled a sob 
and wiped under her eyes to try to stop the flow of tears. 

“T can remember feeling that way when I was your age. I wouldn’t go 
back to being fourteen for anything, not even with all the years I’d get 
back.” 

The tears weren’t stopping. Millie looked out the window and tried to 
ignore Grandpa. He couldn’t possibly understand. Nobody could 


understand, especially people who got excited about Christmas sweaters 
and cookies and all that fake happy stuff they filled their minds with to 
ward off their fear of death. 

Millie wasn’t afraid of death. Right now, death felt like her only friend. 


* Kk & 


“My, we certainly are picky, aren’t we?” the voice said. “For somebody 
who wants the end result, we’re awfully fussy about how to achieve it. But 
there are lots more options. I feel like a waiter talking my way through the 
menu at a fancy restaurant. The difference, of course, is that one menu 
gets you fed. The other menu gets you dead.” Low, rumbling laughter. “Oh, 
I crack myself up. Hmm ... since I was talking about food, how about 
boiling? Did you know that Henry VIII made boiling alive the official 
form of punishment during his reign? Funny that they call it boiling alive 
because goodness knows you don’t stay alive for very long. But I could 
easily flood my insides with water, then use my energy stores to bring the 
temperature up, up, up. First it would feel like a nice, warm bath, but then 
it would just keep getting hotter and hotter and hotter. I wonder if you’d 
turn red like a lobster?” 

Millie sat miserably at her table in the cafeteria, knowing she was doomed 
to eat alone. She opened an anthology of horror stories she had checked 
out from the school library. Books, at least, would always keep her 
company. 

But then Dylan sat down across from her acting like absolutely nothing 
was wrong. “Hey,” he said. 

“How can you just sit across from me like that?” Millie said. He was so 
casual, opening up his ketchup packets and creating a little red puddle on 
his plate, just like always. 

“Like what?” Dylan said, looking lost. “I sit here every day.” 

“T would think you’d want to sit with Brooke,” Millie said. 

“Brooke has a different lunch period than me.” He obliviously dipped a 
nugget into his ketchup puddle and popped it into his mouth. 

Millie felt anger rising up all the way from her toes. “So I’m what? 
Your backup? Her understudy?” 


Dylan rubbed his face like he was tired. “I’m sorry, Millie. I’m trying 
to keep up; I really am. But you’re not making any sense.” 

Millie couldn’t understand how he could be so stupid. “Dylan, I saw 
you. With her. At the bazaar last night.” 

“Yeah? So?” 

She had never felt so exasperated. “You were holding hands. You were 
clearly together.” 

“Yeah? So?” he repeated. But then a look of realization dawned on his 
face. “Wait, Millie, did you think you and I were ... dating?” 

Millie swallowed hard and told herself not to cry. “You noticed me. 
Brought me a book. Took me out for tea. Of course I thought we might. In 
the future. Date, I mean.” 

“Wow,” Dylan said. “I’m sorry if I misled you. I mean, you’re really 
great and really pretty and everything, but I never meant to make you 
think we were anything other than friends. Haven’t you ever had a friend 
who’s a boy but who’s not, you know, a boyfriend?” 

Hannah had been Millie’s only friend but had abandoned her. There was 
no way Millie was sharing this fact with Dylan. “Of course I have. But 
Dylan, you told me I was the only cool person you’d met at this school.” 

“T did. But that was my first day. I’ve met other cool people since then.” 

“Like Brooke?” Millie’s voice dripped with sarcasm. 

“What, you don’t approve of Brooke?” Dylan said. 

“She’s blonde and basic,” Millie said. No need to mince words. The 
truth was the truth. 

“Have you ever had a conversation with her?” Dylan asked. “Do you 
even know what she’s like?” 

Had Millie ever heard Brooke say anything? She was quiet in U.S. 
government class, Millie assumed, because she had nothing interesting or 
important to say. “I’ve never talked to her,” Millie said. “I don’t talk to 
just anyone.” 

Dylan shook his head. “Well, Brooke isn’t just anyone. She’s smart and 
well-read and nice. She wants to be a veterinarian. Why does it matter 
what color her hair is?” Dylan looked at her so hard it was like he was 
looking through her. “Millie, I’m disappointed in you. You, of all people, 
with your black wardrobe and black eyeliner and black nail polish. It 
seems like you’d know better than to judge a person based on her 
appearance. You don’t like when people do it to you, and yet you’re guilty 


of the very same crime. I’m pretty sure that’s called hypocrisy.” He stood 
up. “I think this conversation is over.” 

As the winter holidays approached, Millie’s mood became grimmer and 
grimmer. The cold temperatures and the gray skies and the stripped-bare 
trees all matched her emotional state perfectly. Cheerful holiday lights and 
plastic Santas on people’s houses filled her with anger, and the sound of 
Christmas carols in stores and other public places enraged her. She felt 
that she couldn’t be held responsible for her actions if she had to hear 
“Winter Wonderland” one more time. 

Holiday cheer, peace on earth, and goodwill were just lies people told 
themselves. Winter was the season of death. 

At dinner—vegetable stir-fry for Millie, chicken and vegetable stir-fry 
for Grandpa—Grandpa said, “So are you excited that tomorrow’s the last 
day before winter break?” 

“Not really,’ Millie said. “Listen, ve been meaning to tell you, I’m 
not celebrating Christmas this year.” 

Grandpa’s face fell. “Not celebrating Christmas? But whyever not?” 

Millie poked at a piece of broccoli with her fork. “I refuse to pretend to 
be happy on some particular day just because society tells me I’m 
supposed to be.” 

“It’s not about society. It’s about family,” Grandpa said. “It’s about 
getting together and enjoying each other’s company. On Christmas Eve 
your aunt and uncle and cousins are coming over, and your mom and dad 
are going to Skype in so they can be a part of things. We’ll have a big 
dinner and exchange gifts, and then we’ll have hot chocolate and cookies 
and play board games.” 

Millie felt nauseous at the thought of all that false cheer. “I’1l be here 
because I don’t have anyplace else to go, but I refuse to participate in the 
festivities.” 

“Is that a fact?” Grandpa said. He pushed his plate away. “Listen, 
Millie, you’ve never been a particularly cheerful child. Heaven knows you 
were the fussiest baby I’ve ever seen, and when you were a toddler, your 
temper tantrums were legendary. But I feel like you’re especially unhappy 
here with me now, and I’m genuinely sorry for that. I’m an old man and 
I’m no expert in what young girls like, but I’ve tried to make things as 


nice for you as I can. Maybe it would’ve been better if you had chosen to 
move abroad with your mom and dad. I know it must be hard to be so far 
away from them.” 

“T don’t miss my parents!” Millie shouted. But even as she said it, she 
wasn’t sure it was true. Sure, they made her crazy sometimes when they 
were together, but it was weird having them so far away, and Skyping with 
them on Sunday nights wasn’t nearly enough to make up for their absence 
from her everyday life. It didn’t help that she tended to be in a bad mood 
during their Skype sessitons—mad at them for being gone—and so the 
conversations weren’t always pleasant. 

“Okay, maybe you don’t,” Grandpa said. “But something’s been eating 
you lately—maybe a problem at school or a falling-out with a friend? I’m 
not saying I could help, but sometimes it helps just to have someone to 
listen.” 

Against her will, a picture of Dylan popped into her head—Dylan the 
first day she met him when she couldn’t believe this cool new guy, who 
could’ve sat anywhere he wanted to in the cafeteria, chose to sit right 
across from her. Well, that never happened anymore. Now he sat at a table 
with those guys who never talked about anything but fantasy role-playing 
games, and Millie sat alone with only a book for company. 

“T told you, I don’t have any friends,” Millie said. 

“Well, maybe you should try to make one,” Grandpa said. “You don’t 
have to be a social butterfly if you don’t want to, but everybody needs one 
good friend.” 

“You don’t know what I need!” Millie stood up from the table. “I’m 
going to go do my homework.” She didn’t really have homework since 
tomorrow was the last day before break, but she’d say whatever she had to 
say to get out of there. 

“And I’m going to my workshop,” Grandpa said. “You’re not the only 
one who can storm out of a room, you know, girlie.” It was the first time 
since she had moved in with Grandpa that he sounded like he was actually 
mad at her. 

In her room, Millie opened her laptop, went to YouTube, and typed in 
“Curt Carrion music videos.” She clicked on “Death Mask,” her favorite 
song. The video was filled with images of ravens and bats and circling 
vultures. In the center of it all was Curt Carrion himself, growling his way 
through the morbid lyrics, his black hair spiky, his complexion pallid, his 


black eyeliner perfectly applied. Millie felt like Curt Carrion might be the 
one person on the planet who would understand her. 
Who was she kidding? Nobody would. 


* ok & 


“Please don’t boil me alive,” Millie said. She had to figure out a way to 
escape. Suddenly, desperately, she wanted to live. 

“Not boiling? Well, understandable. By all accounts, it 1s a nasty way to 
go. People who observed boilings during Henry VIII’s time said it was so 
sickening they would have preferred to see a beheading. Oh! There’s a 
good one we haven’t talked about yet. Decapitation!” He said it like it was 
such a happy word. “There are many ways to chop off a head, of course, 
and if the blade is sharp enough, it’s fairly quick and painless. That being 
said, if the blade isn’t sharp enough ... well, poor Mary, Queen of Scots, 
had to get three hacks with the headsman’s dull old axe before her noggin 
was liberated from her body. The guillotine was quick and clean, though, 
and didn’t require any particular skill on the part of the executioner, which 
made it easy to get rid of all those rich snots during the French Revolution. 
They just lined them up and ran them through the guillotine like an 
assembly line. Or rather, a disassembly line!” The voice paused again to 
chuckle. Whatever it was, it seemed to be having a very good time at 
Millie’s expense. “Saudi Arabia—where your parents are, am I right?— 
still uses beheading as their preferred form of capital punishment. They 
use a sword, which I find rather stylish and dramatic.” 

Saudi Arabia, Millie thought. Her parents were so far away. So unable 
to help her. And now, as she was facing down death, she strangely felt 
more love for them than she ever had. Sure, they were weird and they 
made strange decisions and stupid mistakes, but she knew they loved her. 
She thought of her dad’s awful jokes and of her mom reading her story 
after story at bedtime when she was little. Maybe her parents were 
different from other kids’ parents, but they had always taken care of her 
basic needs, and they had always made her feel loved and safe. 

Millie wanted to be safe. 


“Millie, at least come downstairs and say hello!” Grandpa called up the 
stairs. 

It was Christmas Eve, and Grandpa had been blasting Christmas music 
all day long, singing “Silver Bells” and “White Christmas” and others of 
Millie’s least favorites off-key in the kitchen while he baked the ham and 
decorated the cookies. 

From the level of noise downstairs, Millie assumed that her aunt and 
uncle and cousins had arrived. This fact did not fill her with joy. Nothing 
did. 

Millie reluctantly dragged herself downstairs. They were gathered 
around an antique glass punch bowl that Grandpa had dug out from who 
knows where in this house full of stuff. 

They were wearing Christmas sweaters, all of them, even her annoying 
little cousins. Aunt Sheri had on some wearable abomination with a 
reindeer that had a light-up nose. Uncle Rob, her dad’s goofy brother, wore 
a red sweater with candy canes on it, and Cameron and Hayden wore 
matching elf sweaters. It was all so hideous that Millie feared her eyes 
would bleed. 

“Merry Christmas!” Aunt Sheri greeted her, opening her arms for a 
hug. 

Millie did not move toward her. “Hello,” she said, her voice dripping 
icicles. 

“Off to a funeral, Millie?” Uncle Rob said, nodding toward her head-to- 
toe black and purple clothing. He always said this to her and apparently 
never stopped finding it hilarious. 

“T wish,” Millie said. Better to be in an honest sad environment than a 
fake happy one. And she would certainly prefer funereal organ music to 
being forced to listen to “Winter Wonderland” again. 

“Millie isn’t celebrating Christmas this year,” Grandpa said. “But at 
least she’s agreed to grace us with her presence.” 

“How can you not want to celebrate Christmas?” Hayden said, looking 
up at Millie with big, innocent blue eyes. “Christmas is awesome.” He had 
a little lisp that came out when he said “Christmas” and “awesome,” 
which, Millie supposed, some people would find cute. 

“And presents are awesome!” Cameron said, pumping his fist in 
excitement. Both kids were so hyper it was like their parents had poured 
them full of black coffee. Millie wondered if there had been a time when 


she got this excited over the holiday or whether she had always known 
better. 

“Our culture is already too materialistic,” Millie said. “Why do you 
want more stuff?” 

Her aunt and uncle and cousins all looked uncomfortable. Good. 
Somebody in this family needed to tell the truth. 

Sheri plastered a smile on her face. “Millie, won’t you at least have a 
cup of eggnog?” 

“Drinking eggnog is like drinking phlegm,” Millie said. Really, how 
had such a disgusting beverage become a part of any traditional 
celebration? Eggnog and fruitcake both seemed more like they should be 
part of a punishment rather than a celebration. 

“What’s phlegm?” Hayden asked. 

“It’s that gross slimy stuff that’s in your throat and nose when you have 
a cold,” Aunt Sheri said. 

Cameron raised his cup. “Yum! Egg snot!” he said, then took a big, 
showy drink that left an eggy mustache on his upper lip. 

Millie couldn’t take it. She had to get out of here. “I’m going for a 
walk,” she said. 

“Can we come, too?” Hayden asked. 

“No,” Millie said. “I need to be alone.” 

“Well, don’t stray too far,” Grandpa said. “We’re eating dinner in an 
hour.” 

As Millie headed out the door, Grandpa called for her to remember her 
coat, but she ignored him. 

All the houses in the neighborhood had extra cars in their driveways, no 
doubt because of visiting family members celebrating the holiday. All 
these people acting the same, doing the same thing. Presents and eggnog 
and hypocrisy. Well, Millie was different, and she wasn’t going to 
participate. 

Hypocrisy, she thought again, and this time the word stung her. Dylan 
had said she was a hypocrite because she judged Brooke by her 
appearance. But boys—even boys who seemed cool like Dylan—were 
fooled by appearances. If a conventionally pretty blonde girl paid any 
attention to them, they’d think she was a saint and a genius rolled into one. 
No way was Millie a hypocrite. She was a truth teller, and if some people 
couldn’t handle the truth, that was their problem. 


After one lap around the block, she was feeling pretty cold, but there 
was no way she was going back in the house yet. 

An idea popped into her head. Grandpa’s workshop had a little space 
heater he always kept running; it could keep her toasty warm while she 
waited out the party. He was too busy hosting his lame little holiday 
gathering to go into his workshop. It was a perfect place to hide. 

Grandpa kept the key under a flowerpot beside the workshop door. 
Millie found it, opened the door, and pulled the chain on the bare light 
bulb that lit the small, windowless space. She closed the door behind her 
and looked around. 

The place was even more crammed with stuff than it had been the last 
time she was here. Grandpa really must’ve been hitting the yard sales, flea 
markets, and salvage yards. Near his workbench was a rusty antique 
bicycle, the kind with a giant front wheel and a tiny back one. There were 
lots of old mechanical toys, too—a metal bank with a clown that flipped 
coins into its mouth, a jack-in-the-box that startled her when the jester doll 
inside jumped out, even though she’d known what would happen once she 
started turning the crank. There was even one of those horrible grinning 
monkey dolls that clanged cymbals together. 

Why did Grandpa want all this stuff, and what did he plan to do with it? 
Repair it and then use it to clutter the house some more, she guessed. 

The strangest item among many was tucked into one corner of the 
workshop. It was some kind of mechanical bear with a bow tie, top hat, 
and creepy blank grin. It looked like it once had been white and pink, but 
years of neglect had left it a dingy gray. It was big—big enough for a 
person to climb into its body cavity, like in those science-fiction movies 
where people “drove” giant robots. The hinges on its limbs made it look as 
if its parts had once moved. It must have been a figure from one of those 
old kids’ attractions that featured creepy-looking animatronics. Why had 
little kids ever liked things that were nightmare-inducing? 

From outside the workshop, Millie heard laughter and yelling. Hayden 
and Cameron, playing in the backyard. She hadn’t thought to lock the 
workshop door from the inside. What if they tried to come in? 

She couldn’t let them find her. They’d go tell the adults, and then she’d 
be dragged back into the house and sentenced to mandatory celebration. 

Millie found herself staring at the old animatronic bear, not just as a 
curiosity now, but as a potential solution to her problem. 


She opened the door to the mechanical bear’s body cavity, crawled 
inside, and shut the door behind her. Darkness enveloped her. It was so 
much better than those annoyingly twinkly lights and garish, bright 
Christmas sweaters. 

This was perfect. No one would find her here. She could go back to the 
house after she heard Uncle Rob and Aunt Sheri’s car pulling out of the 
driveway. So what if she missed Skyping with her parents? It served them 
right for being so far away from her on Christmas. 

“Kids, time for Christmas dinner!” Grandpa called out the back door. 
“Millie, you come in, too, if you can hear me.” 

Cameron and Hayden came running in, their cheeks pink from the 
chilly air. 

“It smells great in here,’ Cameron said. 

“Well, that’s because I cooked you a feast,” Grandpa said. “Ham and 
sweet potatoes and rolls and your mom’s green bean casserole. You boys 
didn’t happen to see Millie while you were out there, did you?” 

“Nope, didn’t see her,” Hayden said. “Grandpa, why is she so weird?” 

Grandpa chuckled. “She’s fourteen. You'll be weird when you’re 
fourteen, too. Now go wash your hands before we sit down to eat.” 

At the table, Grandpa carved the big, sticky, beautiful ham. “I glazed 
this thing with Coca-Cola,” he said. “Found the recipe on the internet. I’ve 
been looking up a lot of recipes since Millie moved in, most of them 
vegetarian so she won’t starve herself to death. I bought this weird, fake 
turkey loaf thing for her at the grocery store. When she gets back, she can 
have it with the green bean casserole and sweet potatoes.” 

“T keep feeling like we ought to go out and look for her,” Sheri said. 

“Oh, she’Il show up when she gets hungry or when she feels like she’s 
made her point,” Grandpa said. “She and that cat of hers aren’t that 
different. She’s just at that age, you know. Now, speaking of hungry, who 
wants some ham?” 

“T don’t have a sword like a Saudi Arabian executioner, Silly Millie,” the 
voice said, “but I do have a sharp sheet of metal I could pass through the 


chamber. It could pass at the level of your throat, or it could hit you lower 
and bisect you. And bisection is a sure way to go, too. Either way, the job 
would get done! I think it would be smooth like Madame Guillotine 
instead of a slow, dull hacking like Mary, Queen of Scots experienced, but 
I’m not one hundred percent sure. This will be my first attempt at 
decapitation. Yours, too, but it will also be your last!” 

As the voice laughed at its latest witticism, Millie pushed on the walls 
of the chamber that trapped her. They didn’t budge. But then she saw a tiny 
crack of light shining through the side of the door. Maybe if she could slip 
something—a tool of some sort—into that crack, she could somehow pry 
the door open. But what could she use as a tool? 

She took a mental survey of her jewelry. Her earrings were too small 
and breakable, and her necklace was an unhelpful string of jet beads. But 
there was the silver cuff bracelet on her wrist. She pulled it off and pushed 
and bent it until it was nearly ruler-straight. The end seemed like the right 
size to slip into the crack in the door. But she was too afraid to test it, too 
worried that her captor would notice. 

“Millie?” the voice said. “Are you still with me? A decision must be 
made.” 

Millie thought. If she lowered her head and curled up into a little ball 
when the blade shot through, it would miss her. She’d have to be quick, 
though, and make sure she got her whole head out of the way, or else she’d 
get scalped. If the blade came through lower to bisect her, she’d really 
have to flatten out in the bottom of the small space. “Is there any chance 
you would just let me go?” she asked. “Anything I could give you in 
exchange for my life?” 

“Lamb chop, there’s nothing I want from you except your life.” 

Millie took a deep breath. “Okay. Then decapitation it is.” 

“Really?” The voice sounded tremendously pleased. “Good choice. It’s 
a classic. I promise you won’t be disappointed.” The low, rumbling laugh. 
“You won’t be disappointed because you’ll be dead!” 

Millie felt more tears spring to her eyes. She had to be strong. But you 
could still cry and be strong at the same time. “Tell me when you’re about 
to do it, okay? Don’t just spring it on me.” 

“Fair enough, I suppose. It’s not like you’re going anywhere. Give me a 
few minutes to get ready. You know what they say—‘Prior preparation 
prevents poor performance.’ ” 


The chamber shook and rattled, then the animatronic’s eyes rolled back 
outward, away from the chamber. 

Millie waited, her heart pounding. Why had she ever wished for death? 
No matter how hard life could be, how depressing or disappointing, she 
wanted to live. If nothing else, she wanted the chance to apologize to 
Dylan for what she’d said about Brooke and to ask if they could be friends 
again. 

She curled into as tiny a ball as she could, tucking her head under her 
arms. She hoped harder than she’d ever hoped for anything that she was 
low enough to miss the blade. 

“Millicent Fitzsimmons, you are hereby sentenced to die for Crimes of 
Humanity.” 

“Wait,” Millie said. “What does that mean—Crimes of Humanity?” 

“You,” the voice said, “have been rude and quick to anger. You have 
rushed to the judgment of others. You have been insufficiently grateful to 
those who have shown you nothing but love and kindness.” 

The voice was right. Different incidences of her own rudeness and 
ingratitude played in her head like scenes from a movie she didn’t want to 
see. “Guilty as charged,” Millie said. “But why are those crimes I have to 
die for? Those are crimes that everybody’s guilty of from time to time.” 

“True,” the voice said. “That’s why they’re Crimes of Humanity.” 

“But if they’re something all humans are guilty of, then why do J have 
to die for them?” The voice didn’t answer, and Millie felt a small tingle of 
hope. Maybe she wouldn’t have to take her chances by curling up on the 
floor of the cavity. Maybe she could talk herself out of this yet. 

“Because,” the voice said, “you’re the one who crawled into my belly.” 

Whimpering, Millie made herself as small as she possibly could in the 
bottom of the cavity. If she got out, she was going to make it a point to be 
nicer to Grandpa. He really had been good to her, taking her in and putting 
up with her moods and teaching himself how to cook all those vegetarian 
recipes. 

“In the spirit of the French Revolution,” the voice said, “I will now do a 
countdown in French before releasing the blade! Un, deux, TROIS!” 

Quick as a shot, the blade sliced through the chamber. 


* OK ® 


Grandpa brought out a platter of sugar cookies and set them on the coffee 
table. “Ill be right back with the hot chocolate,” he said. In the kitchen, he 
finally broke down and called Millie’s cell number. Her phone rang from 
the pocket of her jacket that was hanging on the coatrack in the hall. 

Oh, well. She would come back when she felt like she’d proved her 
point. He hated to think of her being outside without a jacket, though. It 
was pretty chilly out there. 

Grandpa poured five cups of hot chocolate and topped them each with a 
generous handful of mini marshmallows. He carried the steaming cups on 
a tray into the living room. “Who’s ready for presents?” he called. 

“T am,” Cameron shouted. 

“T am!” Hayden shouted even louder. 

“Do you think we should wait for Millie?” Sheri asked. 

“She’s not celebrating Christmas, remember?” Rob said. “Why should 
we wait for her if she’s decided to be a brat?” 

Grandpa didn’t like the word brat being used to describe Millie. She 
wasn’t a bad kid. She was just at a difficult age. She would come around. 
He crouched under the Christmas tree and arranged all her presents in a 
big pile so they’d be there for her when she came back. 


ABOUT THE 
AUTHORS 


Scott Cawthon is the author of the bestselling video game series Five 
Nights at Freddy’s, and while he is a game designer by trade, he is first and 
foremost a storyteller at heart. He is a graduate of The Art Institute of 
Houston and lives in Texas with his wife and four sons. 


Elley Cooper writes fiction for young adults and adults. She has always 
loved horror and is grateful to Scott Cawthon for letting her spend time in 
his dark and twisted universe. Elley lives in Tennessee with her family and 
many spoiled pets and can often be found writing books with Kevin 
Anderson & Associates. 


Propping his foot on an open drawer, Detective Larson leaned back in his 
wooden desk chair. Its typical creak sounded unusually loud in the absence 
of the daytime chaos of the divisional office. The bullpen was crammed 
with twelve desks, double that number of chairs, triple that number of 
computers and monitors and printers, a smattering of bulletin boards and 
storage cabinets and work tables, and the lone malfunctioning coffee 
maker stuck in the corner. The coffee maker spewed out abysmal coffee, 
but it made a musical hissing sound that a couple of the detectives thought 
sounded like “Ride of the Valkyries.” It was on one of its more screeching 
crescendos right now. 

Larson shook his head. He only noticed how depressing the place was 
when all the people were gone, as they were on this late Monday evening. 
He should have been gone, too, but he wasn’t in a hurry to get back to his 
empty apartment. Ever since his wife, Angela, left him, filed for divorce, 
and embarked on a mission to be sure he saw their seven-year-old son, 
Ryan, as little as possible, Larson didn’t see the point of going home. 
Home wasn’t home. It was a two-bedroom walk-up that, according to 
Ryan, smelled like pickles and had the “ugliest carpet ever.” 

He’d told himself he’d stay late and catch up on reports, but he was 
really just sitting there feeling sorry for himself. 

Was he really the horrible dad Angela accused him of being? Sure, the 
job forced him to miss a lot of Ryan’s games and school events. Yes, he’d 
broken a lot of promises to his son. 

“T’11 be home in time to throw the ball, Ryan,” turned into, “Sorry. I got 
a new case.” 

“T’ll take you camping this weekend,” turned into, “Sorry. The chief 
called me in.” 

“He’s your son, Everett,” Angela kept saying to him before she left. 
“He’s not an afterthought. He should be your reason for being, not 
something you’ll get around to someday.” 

Angela just didn’t understand. He loved his son, of course, but this job 
wasn’t just a job. 

Yep, he was definitely feeling sorry for himself. Not the best use of his 
time. 


Larson shifted, trying to find the ever-elusive comfortable position in 
his desk chair. He looked around at the place where he’d spent two-thirds 
of his life over the last five years. It really was a bleak room. Dingy beige 
walls, flickering fluorescent lights, scuffed gray linoleum floor, all that 
furniture in perpetual disarray ... Were detectives so lowly that they 
deserved such surroundings, or were they just too darn busy to do 
anything about it? 

Larson shifted his gaze to the line of narrow windows that marched 
along the outside wall of the room. At the end of the row, he noticed a 
skinny ivy vine growing through a gap between the window frame and a 
dirty window that let in the sickly yellow glow of a street lamp. 

“There’s my favorite sucker.” 

Larson suppressed a groan. That’s what he got for not going home. 

“Chief,” he said. 

Chief Monahan wended his way through the empty desks, wrinkling his 
nose when he passed Detective Powell’s monument to slobbery. “What is 
that stench?” The chief looked down at the piles of paperwork and empty 
food containers. 

“Don’t know. Don’t want to know.” From where Larson sat, the office 
smelled like disinfectant. His partner, Detective Roberts, whose desk faced 
Larson’s tidy domain, sprayed the stuff incessantly to mask whatever it 
was that seemed to have died in Powell’s desk. 

The chief propped a foot on the extra chair next to Larson’s desk. He 
held out an envelope. Larson eyed it. He had strong suspicion he wasn’t 
going to like what was in it, so he made no move to take it. 

The chief tossed the envelope onto Larson’s smudged green desk 
blotter. It landed next to the row of freshly sharpened pencils Larson had 
lined up for his evening’s drudgery. 

“The Stitchwraith,” the chief said. “No one else wants it.” 

“T don’t want it.” 

“Tough.” The word sounded exactly that when the chief said it. A 
compact, prematurely gray-haired man, the chief made it clear early in his 
career that his size and hair color had nothing to do with his ability to kick 
ass. He wasn’t big, but he could do what any big man could do. And he 
sounded like a big man, with a loud, rough voice you didn’t argue with 
unless you absolutely had to. 


Larson had to. He did not want to see what was in the envelope. “The 
Stitchwraith is an urban legend,” Larson protested, still not touching the 
envelope, which lay like a big slug next to his foot. 

“Not anymore. You heard the latest?” Chief Monahan clearly wasn’t 
going to listen to dissent. 

Larson sighed. How could he not have? It was all over the news, and the 
public was demanding answers. 

A local teen, Sarah something, disappeared a week before, and the 
detectives assigned to the case—not Larson, who gave thanks for small 
favors—had several dozen eyewitnesses who claimed the girl turned into 
garbage right before their eyes. Now admittedly the eyewitnesses were 
public school kids, not always the most stellar purveyors of truth, but in 
this case, their stories had a ring of authenticity, in spite of the outlandish 
content. 

“T heard,” Larson admitted. 

“Can’t make heads or tails of it, I know. But this morning, we had most 
of the witnesses back in to see the psychologists. The shrinks confirm the 
witnesses believe what they’re saying. Same goes for the people who’ve 
seen The Stitchwraith.” 

Larson rolled his eyes then said in a deep voice, “ ‘A strange cloaked 
figure roaming the streets.’ ” He returned to his normal unremarkable 
voice, “Did I go to sleep and wake up in a horror flick?” 

The chief snorted then indicated the envelope with a shift of his square 
jaw. “You haven’t heard the best part. Open it.” 

Larson took a deep breath and put his foot on the floor. He tipped his 
chair forward. It creaked again, this time louder, as if it, too, had no 
interest in The Stitchwraith and needed to voice its own objection. Larson 
picked up the envelope. Pulling an inch-thick stack of papers from it, he 
flipped through a few witness reports. Like the schoolkids’ reports, these 
witnesses’ testimonies all sounded similar, though they still had enough 
detail to diminish the possibility of a hoax. 

The Stitchwraith, witnesses said, was a shrouded figure in some sort of 
cloak, cape, or hooded coat. It had a lurching walk, a complete disinterest 
in others unless bothered, and an obsession with dumpsters and trash bins. 
It was usually seen dragging garbage bags full of no-one-knew-what. He’d 
heard all of this before. He and most of his fellow detectives had 
dismissed it as bunk. 


Setting aside the witness reports, Larson flipped through the next few 
sheets in the envelope. They were all suspicious death reports. 

Larson kept his face blank as he read, and he was glad the chief 
couldn’t see the frisson of dread that skittered along his nerve endings. He 
felt like the reports dropped a stone into the pond of his life, and now their 
impact was rippling inexorably outward toward some future he wasn’t 
going to like. 

Larson flipped through the stack. “Five? Five withered bodies with,’— 
he looked down and read from the top report stack—* ‘eyes that bled 
black down the sides of the face.’ More of that?” The manner of death 
wasn’t new to Larson, unfortunately, but he’d only known of one victim. 
And he didn’t know it had anything to do with The Stitchwraith. 

Chief Monahan shrugged. 

Larson read more carefully. Two of the dead men found had impressive 
criminal histories. Larson recognized one of the guys—he’d collared him 
for assault a few years back. He separated out the two reports and tapped 
them. “I bet these two tried to mug the guy.” 

The chief, who had finally sat down in Larson’s visitor chair, nodded. “I 
agree.” He leaned forward and pointed to a stack of photographs Larson 
hadn’t looked at yet. “Look at those.” 

Larson flipped through the photos taken from security cameras near 
The Stitchwraith sightings. He squinted at one that showed the figure 
pulling what seemed to be a mannequin’s torso from a dumpster. “What 
the heck is he doing?” 

The chief didn’t answer. 

Larson kept going through the photos. He stopped again. From under 
the hood of what looked like maybe a long trench coat, a bulky white face 
peered out at the night. Larson stiffened so he wouldn’t recoil. He wanted 
to drop the photo and get as far from his desk as he could. But he didn’t do 
that. He just stared at the strange visage and concentrated on breathing 
normally. He wasn’t going to let this craziness rattle him, especially not in 
front of the chief. 

The face wasn’t a face, not a human face anyway. Unless it was a 
damaged human face covered in bandages maybe? It looked more like a 
mask. The face was round, and its features were drawn onto the curved 
white surface. Done in thick black marker, the black features looked like a 
child had made them. 


Larson deliberately relaxed his shoulders, which he realized had been 
creeping toward his ears. /t’s just a stupid mask, he told himself. 

Larson looked up at Chief Monahan. “A mask?” 

“Your guess is as good as mine.” 

Larson looked back at the face. It had dark eyes, one of which looked 
blackened, and it had a terrifying mouth with a missing tooth and 
something stuck between the remaining front teeth. Were those blood 
stains around the mouth? 

“We got a match on it.” The chief pressed his thin lips together in what 
could have been a smile. He liked dropping bombshells. 

“A match on what? This?” Larson pointed at the blurred and bizarre 
face. 

The chief nodded. “And you’re not going to believe where we got it 
from.” 
he surf, the wind, and the rain were at war, battering against the 

old building so forcefully Greg wondered if its crumbling walls 
coufa stand against them. When the bawling thunder blasted the boarded-up 
window again Greg jumped back, stumbling into Cyril and tromping on his 
foot. 

“Ow!” Cyril shoved Greg, jabbing his flashlight spastically at the wall in 
front of them. The light scanned over drooping sections of blue striped 
wallpaper and what looked like two red letters, “Fr.” Streaks of something 
dark sprayed over the stripes. Was that pizza sauce? Or something else? 

Hadi laughed at his two bumbling friends. “It’s just the wind, guys. Suck 
it up.” 

Another gust hit the building, and the walls shuddered, drowning out 
Hadi’s voice. The rain pounding on the metal roof ratcheted up, but inside 
the building, close by, something metallic clinked loud enough to be heard 
over the wind and rain. 

“What was that?” Cyril whirled and swung his flashlight in a wild arc. 
At barely thirteen, Cyril was a year younger than Greg and Hadi, though 
still in their fledgling freshman class. He was short and skinny with boyish 
features and limp brown hair, and he had the misfortune of sounding like a 
cartoon mouse. It didn’t win him many friends. 

“ “Let’s go check out the old pizzeria,’ ” Cyril mimicked Greg’s 
suggestion. “Yeah, this was a great idea.” 

It was a crisp autumn night, and the seaside town was dark, robbed of 
power by the latest storm’s assault. Greg and his friends had planned a 
Saturday night of gaming and junk food, but as soon as the power went out, 
Hadi’s parents tried to recruit them for a board game—the family’s tradition 
during power outages. Hadi had convinced his parents to let the boys bike 
the short distance to Greg’s house, where they could play one of Greg’s new 
tabletop strategy games instead. But once there, Greg enlisted them to go to 
the pizzeria. For days he’d known he had to do this. It was like he was 
drawn to this place. 

Or maybe he had it all wrong. This could be a wild goose chase. 


Greg shined his flashlight around the corridor. They’d just explored the 
kitchen of the abandoned restaurant and had been shocked to find it was 
still stocked with pots, pans, and dishes. Who closed a pizzeria and left all 
that stuff behind? 

After they left the kitchen, they found themselves next to a large stage at 
one end of what had once been the main eating area of the derelict pizzeria. 
A heavy black curtain at the back of the stage was drawn closed. None of 
the boys had volunteered to see what was behind the curtain ... and none of 
them had mentioned seeing the curtain move when they passed the stage. 

Hadi laughed again. “Better than hanging with the fam ... hey, what’s 
that?” 

“What’s what?” Cyril aimed his light in the direction of Hadi’s gaze. 

Greg turned his flashlight that way, too, toward the far comer of the 
large, table-filled room they stood in. The glowing beam landed on a row of 
hulking shapes lined up along a murky glass counter. Bright eyes reflected 
the light back at them from across the room. 

“Cool,” Hadi said, kicking aside a broken table leg as he made his way 
toward the counter. 

Maybe, Greg thought, frowning at the eyes. One pair seemed to be 
staring right at him. Despite the confidence he’d felt before, he was 
beginning to wonder what exactly he was doing here. 

Hadi approached the counter first. “This is dope!” He reached for 
something and sneezed when dust billowed up from the stand. 

Before they left his house Greg had suggested they all take 
handkerchiefs to cover their noses and mouths, but he couldn’t find any. He 
expected to find the empty restaurant filled with dust, mold, mildew, and 
who knew what else. Surprisingly, given the wet coastal climate, the only 
decay they’d seen was dust; but there was a lot of dust. 

Greg stepped around an overturned metal chair and passed Cyril, who 
had his back pressed to a dirty, paint-peeled pillar in the middle of the 
dining area. Other than one broken table and two upside-down chairs, the 
area looked like it just needed a heavy cleaning before it could be fit for 
diners. Which, again, was strange. Greg had known something would be 
here, but he didn’t expect the building to still hold dishes and furniture and 
... what else? 


Greg looked at what Hadi held, and he sucked in his breath. Was this 
what he’d come for? Was this why the old place was calling to him? 

“What is it?” Cyril asked, not moving any closer to the counter. 

“T think it’s a cat.” Hadi turned the lumpy, roughly furred object he held. 
“Or maybe a ferret?” He poked at whatever it was. “Might be an 
animatronic?” He put it down and shined his light over the other shapes 
along the counter. “Yeah, awesome. They’re prizes. See?” Hadi scanned his 
light over the stiff figures. 

That explained the cavelike cubbyholes that lined the broad hallway 
Greg and his friends had come through to get to the dining area. The little 
enclosures must have been for arcade cabinets and game booths. 

“T can’t believe these are still here,” Hadi said. 

“Yeah.” Greg frowned, studying what looked like a stiffened sea otter 
and a tangled octopus. Why were they still here? 

The old pizzeria had stood, boarded up and bombarded by coastal storms 
and sea air, for who knew how long. The structure was clearly abandoned, 
and it looked not just old but ancient, on the verge of collapse. The graying, 
weathered siding was so faded you could barely tell what it was; the name 
of the pizzeria was long gone. So why did it look so good on the inside? 
Well, not good, exactly. But from where Greg stood, the building looked 
sturdy enough to stand another hundred years. 

Greg and his parents had moved to the small town when he was in first 
grade, so he knew the place well. But he didn’t really understand it. For 
example, he’d always thought it was strange that a boarded-up pizzeria had 
been left untouched in what was supposed to be a vacation spot. But then 
again, this wasn’t exactly a swanky resort town. Greg’s mom called it a 
“hodge podge.” Big, fancy homes could be found across the street from 
tiny, ugly beach cabins draped in dirty fishing floats and surrounded by 
piles of old lumber or crumpled lawn furniture. The house across from 
Greg’s had a huge boxy sedan, like from the seventies, up on blocks in the 
front yard. Still, Greg wondered why a pizza place couldn’t be turned into 
something useful instead of being left a gnarled old ghost-building that 
practically screamed, “break in,” to local kids. 

But weirdly, it didn’t look like anyone had broken in before Greg and 
Cyril and Hadi did. Greg had figured they’d find footprints, trash, graffiti 
evidence that other “explorers” had been here before them. But ... nothing. 


It was like the place was abandoned, dipped in formaldehyde, and preserved 
until Greg suddenly felt like he was supposed to come here. 

“T bet these are still here because they’re the really good prizes,” Hadi 
said. 

“No one ever wins the good prizes,” Cyril piped up. He had edged a little 
closer to the counter, but he was still several feet away. 

“There aren’t any clowns, Cyril.” Greg had to assure Cyril there 
wouldn’t be any clowns in the abandoned restaurant in order to convince 
Cyril to come along. Not that Greg knew one way or the other. 

“What’s that one?” Cyril pointed at a large-headed figure with a big 
nose. It sat under a sign that read, TOP PRIZE. 

Greg picked it up before Hadi could. It was heavy, and its fur felt matted 
and coarse. He was oddly drawn to the animal, whatever it was. He studied 
the pointed ears, sloped forehead, long snout, and piercing yellow eyes. 
Then he noticed the blue collar around the animal’s neck. Something 
gleaming dangled from the collar. A dog tag? He lifted it. 

“Fetch,” Hadi read over Greg’s shoulder. “It’s a dog, named Fetch.” 

Greg loved dogs for the most part, but he hoped to never see one like this 
one in real life. He held the dog up and turned it this way and that. 

Even the vicious old dog that lived next door to Greg wasn’t this ugly. 
Fetch looked like someone had crossed the big bad wolf with the shark 
from Jaws. His (surely it was a he?) head was a triangle, pointy on top and 
with a mouth far too wide for comfort at the bottom. Fetch’s fur, which 
looked grayish brown in the splotchy glow of their flashlights, was missing 
in places, revealing tarnished metal beneath. A couple of wires stuck out of 
the big ears, and a partially exposed cavity in Fetch’s belly revealed what 
looked like a primitive circuit board. 

“Look at this.” Cyril was, surprisingly, now interested in the counter. He 
picked up a small booklet inside a plastic sheath. “I think it’s the 
instructions.” 

“Let me see.” Greg plucked the booklet from Cyril’s grasp. 

“Hey,” Cyril squeaked. 

Greg ignored his protests. This could be it. 

Putting Fetch back on the counter, he pulled the booklet from the plastic 
and scanned through the instructions. Hadi read over his shoulder. Cyril 
stuck his head between Greg’s chest and the booklet, forcing Greg to hold 


the booklet farther out so they could all read together. Fetch, the 
instructions explained, was an animatronic dog designed to sync up with 
your phone and retrieve information and other things for you. 

“That’s lit,” Hadi said. “Think it still works?” 

“How long has this place been empty?” Greg asked. “Fetch looks like 
he’s older than my dad, but smartphones haven’t been around that long.” 

Hadi shrugged. Greg finally did, too, and he began poking around Fetch 
to find the control panel. Hadi and Cyril lost interest. 

“It isn’t going to work. It’s older tech; it won’t be compatible with our 
phones,” Cyril said, cringing when the wind surged against the building 
again. 

Greg felt a chill slither down his spine. Whether it was related to the 
wind’s eerie onslaught or something else, he wasn’t sure. 

Greg returned his attention to Fetch. He wanted to see if he could get the 
dog-thing to do whatever it was supposed to do. He had a hunch this might 
be what he’d felt in the field, what had called him here. 

Cyril’s pessimism about Fetch didn’t surprise Greg. He wouldn’t know 
an opportunity if it thumped him between the eyes. 

Hadi, on the other hand, was relentlessly positive. He had such a sunny 
disposition he’d pulled off what Greg thought was nothing less than a magic 
trick: Hadi was accepted by the popular crowd, despite having spent most 
of his time with Greg and Cyril, two of the nerdiest kids in the school. 
Maybe it had something to do with his looks. Greg had heard girls talking 
about Hadi. Hadi was either “fine,” “hot,” “cute,” “sharp,” or just 
“mmhmm,” depending on the girl who was talking. 

Hadi wandered away from the counter, and Cyril plopped down in a 
chair at the nearest table. “I think we should go,” he said. 

“Nah,” Hadi brushed him off. “There’s still a lot to check out.” 

Greg ignored them both. He’d picked up Fetch and found a panel under 
Fetch’s belly. Juggling the instructions, Fetch, and his flashlight, Greg bit 
his lip and concentrated on hitting the right buttons in the right sequence. 

For an instant, the wind and rain let up, leaving the building in a silence 
that felt almost menacing. Greg glanced up at the ceiling. He noticed a large 
stain above his head. A water stain? Distracted from his task for a second, 
he shined his light over the whole ceiling. No other stains. In fact, why 
wasn’t the whole inside of the restaurant dripping? He thought he’d seen 


part of the metal roof missing when he’d first looked at the building. Why 
wasn’t it leaking? 

Shrugging, he returned his attention to Fetch. At this point, he was just 
randomly pushing buttons. None of the sequences laid out in the 
instructions were doing anything. 

As abruptly as it had stopped, the wind and rain started up again in a 
crescendo of maniacal drumming, pounding, and wailing. That’s when 
Fetch moved. 

Suddenly, with a whirring sound, Fetch’s head raised. Then his gaping, 
tooth-filled mouth opened. And he growled. 

“What the hell!” Greg dropped Fetch on the counter and leaped back. 
Simultaneously, Cyril erupted from his chair. 

“What?” Hadi asked, returning to his friends. 

Greg pointed at Fetch, whose head and mouth were in clearly different 
positions than they had been when they’d found him. 

“Sick,” Hadi said. 

They all stared at Fetch, edging backward in unspoken agreement that a 
little distance was a good idea in case Fetch did something else. 

They waited. 

So did Fetch. 

Hadi got bored first. He shined his flashlight in the direction of the stage. 
“What do you think is behind that curtain?” 

“T think I don’t want to know,” Cyril said. 

Behind them, a door slammed ... inside the building. 

As a unit, the boys ran through the dining room and down the hall to the 
storage room they’d broken into. Even though he was the smallest, Cyril 
reached the room first. He was out through the narrow gap they’d managed 
to create in the jammed service door opening before the other boys could 
squeeze through. 

Outside, pelted by rain streaking sideways, they grabbed their bikes. 
Greg figured the wind was gusting over fifty mph now. No way could they 
bike home. He looked at Hadi, whose curly black hair was matted against 
his head. Hadi burst out laughing, and Greg joined in. Cyril hesitated, then 
started laughing, too. 

“Come on,” Hadi shouted over the screaming wind. Without looking 
back at the restaurant, they put their heads down and pushed their bikes 


against the storm. 

As he trudged beside his friends, Greg thought about why he’d wanted 
them to come to the abandoned restaurant. They’d left so much of it 
unexplored ... like the area behind the curtain. There’d been three closed 
doors off the hallway, too. What was behind them? Greg was afraid he 
might not have gotten what he was there for. Had he done what he was 
meant to do? 

Greg was close to home when a woman called out, “Wet enough for you?” 

He stopped, wiped his eyes, and squinted through the rain. 

“Hey, Mrs. Peters,” he called when he saw his elderly neighbor standing 
on her covered front porch. 

She threw up her skinny arms. “Love these storms!” she sang out. 

He laughed and waved at her. “Enjoy!” he shouted. 

She waved too, and he plodded on. When he neared his parents’ tall, 
modern, oceanfront house, Greg was surprised to see a light in the living 
room window. The town was still dark. When he’d parted with Cyril and 
Hadi, the only lights he’d seen were their flashlights bobbing along like 
disembodied spirits, and the flickers of what looked like candles inside a 
couple houses. The light in his window, however, was bright and steady. 

When he pulled his bike in next to the stilts that raised the house a full 
story off the ground, he discovered why he’d seen light. At first drowned 
out by the thunderous sounds of the wind and rain, he hadn’t heard the 
motor until he practically walked into it. A shiny new generator sat under 
the house, chugging away, a cord extending past the two-car garage and up 
the stairs to the front door. 

Greg peeled off his dripping rain jacket as he climbed the steps, but 
before he reached the front door, it opened. 

“There you are, boyo!” Greg’s uncle Darrin grinned down at him, his 
mountainous six-foot-five, broad-shouldered frame filling the doorway. “I 
was about to mount a search posse. You didn’t answer your phone.” 

Greg reached the entry and exchanged his and his uncle’s signature 
greeting—a half-hug-double-fist-bump. “Sorry, Dare. I didn’t hear it.” He 


pulled the phone from his pocket and tapped it. Dare had texted and called 
him multiple times. “Wow. I swear I didn’t hear it.” 

“Who could hear anything in this wind? Get inside.” 

“Where’d the generator come from?” Greg asked. He didn’t really care. 
He was trying to distract himself from thinking about why he didn’t hear his 
phone in the restaurant. It hadn’t been that loud inside. Could it have been 
because ... 

“T got it in Olympia. Your dad’s been saying for years you don’t need it, 
but that’s bullhonky. I told him he’s going to wish he had one. They’ve been 
saying the storms will be much worse this winter. And wouldn’t you know 
it, they came early this year. How about that rain we got last week for 
Halloween?” Dare shook his head. “Of course, your dad won’t listen.” 

Greg didn’t remember that argument. But then, Dare and Greg’s dad had 
sO Many arguments, how could he remember any specific one? 

Uncle Darrin was Greg’s mother’s brother, her only sibling, and they 
were close; Greg and Dare were even closer. But Greg’s dad hated Dare for 
the very reasons Greg loved him—because Dare was flamboyant and fun. 

“Darrin needs to grow up,” Greg’s dad would say over and over. 

With long hair, died purple and worn in a braid, and a wardrobe of 
bright-colored suits and ties paired with painfully patterned shirts, Dare had 
his own distinct look. That Dare was also a wealthy, successful inventor of 
car parts and had the most amazing luck with investments and money in 
general was the nail in his coffin as far as Greg’s dad was concemed. 
“People like him don’t deserve success,” he often groused. Greg’s dad was 
a contractor, and he worked more than he wanted to afford their big house 
and the expensive cars he liked. The fact that Dare lived on a ten-acre estate 
and made tons of money from “tinkering” in his workshop was “too much.” 

Greg loved Dare the way he wished he could love his dad. Dare had 
done nothing but accept Greg from the day his squished little head entered 
the world, despite the fact that Greg was never a cute baby, and he hadn’t 
turned into a cute kid. His face was too long, his eyes were too close 
together, and his nose was too small. He compensated for all of that with 
long, wavy blond hair, a “great smile” (or so a girl in his former eighth- 
grade class had said), and enough height and muscle to think he might not 
be a total lost cause after high school. Never drawn to typical boy things 
like cars and sports—no matter how hard his dad tried to force them down 


his throat—Greg found an ally in Dare, who didn’t question Greg’s likes or 
dislikes. He accepted Greg as he was. 

“Where’s Mom?” Greg asked Dare. 

“Book club.” 

Greg didn’t ask about his dad. One, he didn’t care. Two, he knew his dad 
would be playing poker with his buddies. That was how he spent his 
Saturday evenings—even if he had to play cards by candlelight. 

“Where were you boys in this weather?” Dare asked. 

“Um, can I keep that a secret?” 

Dare tilted his huge head and stroked his graying goatee. “Sure. I trust 
you.” 

“Thanks.” 

“You want to play backgammon?” Dare asked. 

“Can I take a rain check?” 

“Ha! Good one.” Dare gestured to Greg’s still dripping coat. 

Greg shook his head. “Unintentional. Um, I just wanted to do some 
reading?” 

“Sure. No prob. I just came by to set up the generator for you guys. 
When you weren’t here and I couldn’t get ahold of you, I figured I’d stay 
until worry fried my circuits and made me phone the police.” 

Greg grinned. “I’m glad I made it home before you called the cops.” 

“Me too.” Dare started to reach for his magenta raincoat, then hesitated 
and snapped his fingers. “Oh, by the way, I heard you got your first 
babysitting gig. Glad you finally brought your old man around.” 

“Tt was really thanks to you. Once you threw your two cents in, it was 
three against one. I’m sitting for the McNallys’ kid next week—Jake? They 
need someone to watch him on Saturdays.” 

“No way! His mom and I go way back. Maybe I’Il stop by sometime, 
bring you guys a treat ... or bring by my new puppy. I’ve been thinking 
seriously about getting a dog.” 

“Really? Cool!” 

“Yeah, a friend has a Shih Tzu that’s going to have puppies soon. I’m 
thinking I’ve been without a dog long enough. I miss having a dog to 
cuddle with.” 

Greg laughed. “Just be sure it’s a nice Shih Tzu. I think the beast next 
door is part Shih Tzu.” 


“That snaggle-toothed mongrel? Nah, no dog of mine will be like that. 
Remember,” Dare said, holding up his right index finger, on which he wore 
his favorite onyx and gold ring, “I have ...” 

“The Magic Finger of Luck,” Dare and Greg said in unison. 

They laughed. 

“The Magic Finger of Luck” had been an ongoing joke since Greg was 
about four years old. One day, Greg was crying because he wanted the 
stuffed octopus in a claw machine. He hadn’t been able to get it when his 
mother put money in the machine and he’d tried with the claw. Dare had 
tapped the glass of the claw machine with his right index finger and had 
said in a deep voice, “I have the Magic Finger of Luck. I will get you the 
octopus.” And he had done it on the first try. After that, Dare called on the 
Magic Finger of Luck to get things to go his way. It pretty much always 
worked. 

Greg stopped laughing, thinking again about the neighbor’s dog. 

“Yeah, I still can’t believe that thing bit me.” The neighbors next door 
had moved in the year before, and two days later, their dog, a small but evil 
mutt with very sharp teeth and one missing eye, charged out at Greg and bit 
him on the ankle. He had to have ten stitches. 

“Okay, Pll go and leave you to your reading,” Dare said. “Before I go, 
though, let’s make sure everything’s working right.” 

Fifteen minutes later, Greg was lounging on his double bed reading by 
the nice bright light of his red pendant reading lamp. Dare had gotten the 
family a power transfer system for the generator that hooked up to the 
breaker box. With the flip of a few switches, power was restored to the 
whole house. “Got this especially for your gaming needs,” Dare said before 
giving Greg another half-hug-double-fist-bump and leaving. 

Even though he really wanted to get to his reading, Greg took the time to 
do his nightly yoga routine before sliding under the oversize afghan Dare 
had knitted for him. Dare had also taught him yoga, and Greg loved it. It 
not only calmed him down before bed, it helped him stay in shape. Not that 
“good shape” was good enough. 

Greg stood in front of the mirror and examined his narrow shoulders and 
slight chest. Even though he had muscles in his arms and legs, his torso was 
still too thin. And his face ... 

Greg’s phone buzzed. He picked it up and looked at a text from Hadi. 


U recovered? 

Greg snorted. As if he was scared enough to need recovering. From 
what? he texted back, playing dumb. 

U can’t fool me. 

OK, Greg responded. Yeah, I’m good. Need more courage | guess. 

You need Brian Rhineheart’s brain. He’s not afraid of anything. 

Greg laughed. Good point. Brian Rhineheart was the football team’s star 
running back. He texted, | could use his legs, too. Fast, for running 
away. 

LOL How about Steve Thornton’s shoulders? Powerful enough to 
thump scary things. 

Greg laughed again. But Hadi was onto something. If Greg was going to 
do what he’d set out to do, why didn’t he pick and choose what he wanted? 

Okay, he typed in, but | want Don Warring’s chest, too, then. 

Greg grinned at the idea of constructing a body from football players’ 
parts. He needed a good face, though. Especially if he was going to get a 
girl to pay attention to him. 

| want Ron Fisher’s eyes, he texted. 

RGR. How about Neal Manning’s nose? 

Greg smiled and typed, OBV. 

Mouth? 

Greg thought about it. He responded, Zach’s. 

BFG. 

Greg smiled. He could picture Hadi’s “big freaking grin.” 

Hair? 

| like my own, Greg replied. 

Ego much? 

Greg laughed. 

GG 

Greg typed in, BFN. 

Greg flopped onto his bed. 

He picked up his journal and the book on the Zero Point Field he needed 
to check. He glanced over at his plants before he started reading. They were 
the key to this, weren’t they? They made the exchange he’d just had with 
Hadi more than just a silly game. Well, they were at least the catalyst. 


Learning about Cleve Backster’s experiments is what had launched him 
down the road he was on. 

But the plants wouldn’t help him tonight. He needed to review what he 
knew about Random Event Generators, or REGs. He flipped through his 
book. Yes, there it was. Machines and consciousness. Cause and effect. He 
put the book down and skimmed his last journal entry. 

He hadn’t misinterpreted what he’d gotten, had he? No. He didn’t think 
so. He was either on the right track, or he wasn’t. And if he wasn’t, he 
didn’t think he wanted to know what track he was on. The way he’d been 
drawn to that place couldn’t have been a coincidence. 


The storm hung around another day, but it fizzled out late Sunday night. 
Power came back on. School was in session as usual Monday morning. 

Greg endured the first half of the day and was relieved when 1:10 p.m. 
finally rolled around and he got to go to Advanced Scientific Theory. 
Advanced Scientific Theory was an AP class reserved for freshmen who 
had won science fair prizes in the previous two years. The class had only 
twelve students. It was taught by a visiting teacher, Mr. Jacoby, who also 
taught at Grays Harbor Community College. 

As always, Greg was the first one in the classroom. He sat in the front. 
Only Hadi would sit near him. 

Mr. Jacoby was practically bouncing at the front of the yellow-walled 
classroom when the bell rang. Tall and lanky but so full of energy he 
reminded Greg of a long, coiled spring, Mr. Jacoby was an enthusiastic 
teacher who was undaunted by disinterested students. Greg loved science, 
all science, not just tech, and his passion had earned him the title of 
teacher’s pet. 

Mr. Jacoby always lectured while darting around the front of the 
classroom like he had bugs in his pants. Sometimes he scribbled on the 
whiteboard. More often, he just rambled. But it was interesting stuff. This 
small room, filled with tall wooden lab tables and counter-height chairs, 
was one of Greg’s favorite places in the school. He loved the Periodic Table 
and the constellation posters on the walls. He loved the smell of the 


fertilizer that fed the hybrid plants growing at the back of the room, it made 
him think of science and learning. 

Running a hand through unruly red hair, Mr. Jacoby began, “In quantum 
physics, there is something known as the Zero Point Field. This field is 
scientific proof that there is no such thing as a vacuum, no such thing as 
nothingness. If you empty all space of matter and energy, you still find, in 
subatomic terms, a bunch of activity. This constant activity is a field of 
energy that is always in motion, subatomic matter constantly interacting 
with other subatomic matter.” Mr. Jacoby rubbed a freckled nose. “Are you 
all with me?” 

Greg nodded enthusiastically. Hadi, who sat next to him at the three- 
person lab table, nudged him. “Hey, this is your shtick.” 

Greg ignored him. 

Mr. Jacoby grinned at Greg and took his nod to represent the entire class, 
which was unwise, but Greg was fine with it. 

“Good,” Mr. Jacoby continued. “So this energy is called the Zero Point 
Field because fluctuations in the field are still found in temperatures of 
absolute zero. Absolute zero is the lowest possible energy state, where 
everything’s been removed and there should be nothing remaining to make 
any motion. Make sense?” 

Greg nodded again. 

“Great. So the energy should be zero, but when they measure the energy, 
mathematically, it never actually reaches zero. There’s always some 
remaining vibration due to continued particle exchange. Still with me?” 

Greg nodded enthusiastically. He’d had no idea Mr. Jacoby was going to 
talk about this today. What were the odds? He grinned. There were no odds. 
It was the field. He was so excited that he missed the next few minutes of 
Mr. Jacoby’s lecture. It didn’t matter. He knew this stuff. 

He did tune back in, though, when Kimberly Bergstrom raised her hand. 
Well, he sort of tuned back in. He heard her question: “Is this just theory?” 

He also heard the start of Mr. Jacoby’s answer. “Not entirely. Consider 
the scientific trend. Before the scientific revolution ...” 

That’s where Greg tuned out again. He got caught up in watching 
Kimberly. Who wouldn’t? Long inky black hair. Amazing green eyes. 
Prettier than any model Greg had ever seen. 


Greg felt himself flush, and he whipped his gaze away from Kimberly 
before someone caught him staring. 

Too late. 

Hadi nudged him again, and when Greg looked over, Hadi made goofy 
g00-goo eyes at him. Greg shifted his attention back to Mr. Jacoby. 

As usual, Greg was the last one out of the room when class was over. Mr. 
Jacoby smiled at him as Greg gathered his stuff, and Greg gave another 
thought to talking to his teacher. Then he felt his phone vibrate. Waving at 
Mr. Jacoby, Greg pulled out his phone as he stepped into the hallway. He 
looked at the screen. 


Hello, Greg. HRU. 


The phone number wasn’t familiar. Greg looked around. Who was 
texting him? He entered: I’m fine. Who’s this? Then he watched his 
screen. 


Fetch. 


“Oh very funny, Hadi,” Greg muttered. He texted what he said. 
The reply wasn’t what he expected: 

24U. 

What’s your question? Greg texted. 


Why’d U leave? 


Greg rolled his eyes and entered, You're hilarious. 


TY. U answer. 


Greg felt a tap on the shoulder. “You’re going to be late for Spanish, 
amigo,” Hadi said. 

Greg whipped around. Hadi raised an eyebrow. And Cyril, who stood 
next to him, took a stutter step back. 

“Why are you texting me if you’re right here?” Greg asked Hadi. 

“Dude, you wacked? Do I look like I’m texting you?” 

Uh, actually, no. Hadi’s phone was nowhere in sight. 

Greg looked back at his phone. Whoever was texting him had repeated: 


U answer. 


Greg looked at Cyril. “Did you text me?” 

“No. Por qué habria?” 

“T don’t know why you’d text me. And stop speaking in Spanish,” Greg 
said. 

Cyril ignored him. “Venga.” He tugged on Greg’s sleeve. 

“T hate Spanish,” Greg said. 

Cyril looked past Greg and said, “Hola, Manuel.” 

Greg turned to look at Manuel Gomez, who had transferred into the 
school a couple weeks before from Madrid, Spain. 

“Hola, Cyril. ¢Como estas?” 

“Estoy bien. ¢Tu?” 

“Bueno.” 

“Oye, Manuel, ¢conoces a Greg?” Cyril asked, gesturing at Greg. 

“No.” Manuel smiled at Greg and held out his hand. “Encantada de 
conocerte.” 

“He just said, ‘Nice to meet you,’ ” Cyril told Greg. 

“Lo sé,” Greg said. “I’m not a total Spanish spaz.” 

“Close enough,” Cyril said. 

Manuel laughed. 

“Greg tiene muchos problemas con el espanol,” Cyril told Manuel. 

“1’d be happy to help you with Spanish anytime,” Manuel said to Greg. 
“Want me to give you my number?” He held up his phone. 

“Sure.” Greg swapped phones with Manuel, and they exchanged 
numbers. 


“Yo, Mousie,” someone called out to Cyril. “How’s your mom doing? 
She still a freak like you?” 

Greg turned and faced Cyril’s bully. He cleared his throat and said 
loudly, “Remember this, Trent. “Three things in life are important. The first 
is to be kind. The second is to be kind. And the third is to be kind.’ So said 
Henry James.” 

Trent shoved Greg. “You’re a freak.” 

As Trent sauntered away, Hadi nudged Greg. “You read too much.” 

“You don’t read enough.” 

In unison, they said in exaggerated deep voices, “The universe in 
balance.” They bumped fists and finished with, “Cha!” 

A couple of kids in the hall deliberately jostled Greg, and one of them 
said, “You guys are weird.” 

“And proud of it,” Greg sang. 

Hadi shook his head. 

Manuel touched Greg’s shoulder. “I like Henry James, too.” He grinned 
and held out a fist. 

Greg bumped fists with Manuel; then, shoving his phone in his pocket, 
Greg followed Cyril and Hadi to Spanish. He wasn’t going to talk to them 
about the texts now. But he didn’t stop thinking about the texts, either. If 
neither Hadi nor Cyril sent them, who did? Was someone else in the 
restaurant with the boys on Saturday night? Is that what that slamming door 
was? Or did someone see them leave, then go in and find Fetch? 

The idea that they’d been watched made Greg’s skin crawl. But the idea 
that they hadn’t been watched made all the hairs stand up on Greg’s arms. 
Could it be? He wouldn’t think about it. Not yet. 


By the next day, he was thinking about it. Hard. In that time, he’d received 
a dozen texts from Fetch. By now, he realized the texts had to be from the 
animatronic. They couldn’t be from anyone else because no one else could 
know everything Fetch was texting about. Obviously, Fetch was dialed into 
Greg, so to speak. It quickly became clear that Fetch was synced with 
Greg’s phone, and he was trying to live up to his name. When Greg told 
Cyril he needed more time to do some homework, Fetch sent Greg a link to 


a time-management article, and a clock app appeared on Greg’s phone. 
When Greg looked up REGs online, he received a link, from Fetch, to an 
article about the latest research into intention and REGs. When Greg 
finished the article, Fetch texted: 


01001111 01101011 01100001 01111001 00111111. 


This baffled Greg until he thought about the article he’d just read. The 
article talked about the experiments being done that used REGs to measure 
whether a person could think hard enough to have an effect on an outcome 
in the physical world. Greg knew REGs generated random 1s and Os. Ones 
and zeros, Greg thought. Was it possible? 

Greg copied Fetch’s text into a binary-to-text converter, and sure 
enough, Fetch had texted, “Okay?” in binary code. 

Greg shivered as he texted back, OK. He wasn’t sure it was okay at all. It 
was more spooky than okay. 

Then things got stranger ... as if getting texts from an old animatronic 
dog wasn’t bizarre to begin with. 

One day, Greg told his mom on the phone that he was craving chocolate. 
She said what she always said when he mentioned candy. “Not good for 
you. Have an apple.” Later that day, when she got home from shopping, she 
pulled a chocolate bar out of the bag. 

“How’d this get here?” she said in annoyance, tucking her chin-length 
blonde hair behind an ear. “I didn’t buy this.” She checked her receipt and 
discovered the bar was on the order she’d placed online. 

“Must be a glitch,” she said. “I?ll have to email them.” When she caught 
Greg watching her, she said, “Well, it’s your lucky day,” and tossed him the 
bar. 

As he caught the candy bar, he was pretty sure he couldn’t eat it yet. He 
was too excited. If he was right, Fetch had just fetched him a candy bar. 

What else could the animatronic dog do? 

And how was he doing it? 

Greg could accept, barely, that Fetch was synced with his phone. But 
Fetch wasn’t synced with his mom’s phone, was he? 


The text messages continued day after day. Sometimes Greg responded, 
just because. Sometimes not. Either way, he kept a log in his journal. This 
was giving him important feedback for his project. 

A lot of his exchanges with Fetch made no sense. Like the day Fetch 
texted: 

DDAS 

Why would | do anything stupid? Greg responded. 

Dunno. 

Sometimes, the texts were clear. One day, Greg texted Cyril that he was 
having trouble with the Spanish homework, and he needed the translation 
for “I don’t know how to make banana bread without eggs or flour.” Cyril 
didn’t respond, but Fetch texted: 

No sé como hacer pan de platano sin huevos ni harina. 

Cyril didn’t text back until late in the evening. When he did, his 
translation was the same as Fetch’s. 

Was it time for Greg to tell his friends what was going on? 

He decided to wait. 

But then came the spider. 


One Saturday, a couple weeks before Christmas, Greg was home taking 
care of Jake, his now usual Saturday babysitting gig. Dare—or “Uncle 
Dare” to both Greg and Jake thanks to Dare’s close friendship with Mrs. 
McNally—had suggested he come over with “a rainy day picnic,” complete 
with a yellow smiley face picnic blanket, some potted plants, rubber toy 
insects, and a wicker basket full of creative sandwiches like artichoke salad 
with provolone and raisins on pumpernickel and chicken and peanut butter 
on rye. Fortunately, Dare knew Greg wasn’t as adventurous with food as he 
was, so he included a couple of ordinary tuna salad sandwiches, too. They 
set up their picnic in the living room, in front of the big picture window 
overlooking the dunes and the ocean. You could barely see the ocean 
through the rain—one shade of gray merged with the next. 

Jake, four years old, loved the picnic, but he wasn’t keen on the huge 
rubber spider that lurked near the edge of the picnic blanket. He was so 
agitated that Greg suggested they put the picnic on hold. He got out two 


spatulas and made a big production of scooping up the spider and putting it 
in a sealed plastic bag. That wasn’t enough for Jake. 

“Out!” he demanded, pointing a chubby finger toward the door. 

So Greg put on his rain jacket and went out in the rain. While Dare and 
Jake supervised from under the shelter of the house, Greg dug a hole in the 
mud and buried the rubber spider. 

Satisfied, Jake ate the rest of his picnic lunch without comment. 

“Good job, boyo,” Dare said. 

Greg enjoyed the praise. He sure never got any from his dad, who, as 
usual, was working. When Dare was around, though, he didn’t seem to 
mind his father’s disapproval as much. His uncle made everything seem 
better. 

A couple days before Christmas, Greg and Hadi were talking on the phone 
about Trent. “He’s such a jerk,” Greg said. He laid on his bed watching his 
plants, sending specific thoughts to them like one might send to an REG. 
Just like in Cleve Backster’s experiments, his plants seemed to be 
responding well to his latest intentions. 

“T don’t really pay attention to him,” Hadi said, “but I know he freaks 
out Cyril.” 

“Yeah.” 

“He needs to be pranked,” Hadi said. “I was thinking spiders. I 
overheard him the other day telling Zach he’s afraid of spiders.” 

Greg laughed. “Seriously? I’ve got a rubber one buried in my backyard. 
Maybe if the rain stops, I’ ll dig it up before I come over.” 

“Yeah, do that. Ho, ho, ho. It’d make a nice surprise in his stocking.” 

Greg waited a few hours, but the rain didn’t let up. It thrummed 
relentlessly on the roof. If Greg hadn’t promised Hadi he’d go over to wrap 
presents, he wouldn’t have left the house. 

But he promised, so he geared up for the rain and stepped outside. 

He almost screamed when he looked down and saw a huge spider 
covering the WEL of WELCOME FRIENDS on his mother’s jute doormat. 
Jumping back, he stared at the spider, realizing now what it was. 

Greg felt his pulse accelerate. 


This. Was. Not. Possible. 

But there it was. It was the rubber spider he’d buried—still in its now 
muddy plastic bag. 

No one except Dare and Jake knew where that spider was. Jake and his 
family had gone to Hawaii for Christmas, and Dare was on a ski trip with 
friends. “Wish you could be here for our white Christmas, boyo,” Dare had 
said on the phone the night before. 

Leaning over and picking up the plastic bag by the corner, as if it was a 
deadly creature in and of itself, Greg held the bag in front of his face. 

Were those teeth marks along the bottom edge? 

He dropped the bag. 

His phone buzzed. He sucked in his breath and fumbled for his phone. 

Merry Xmas. 

Merry Christmas to you, too, Fetch, Greg entered while trying to 
ignore the fact that his fingers were trembling. 

He didn’t wait for a reply. Ignoring the urge to throw the phone into the 
shrubs at the edge of his yard, he shoved it back in his pocket. It was time. 
He had to talk to his friends. 

The day after Christmas, the boys gathered in Greg’s room, on the bed. 
Greg sat with his back against the navy blue cushioned headboard, his 
friends sprawled next to each other at the foot. He glanced around the room, 
taking comfort in his familiar surroundings. Posters of movie musicals 
alternated with puppy posters on the walls, and two shelving units stuffed 
with books flanked the window that looked out toward the ocean. The sky 
outside was matte gray, as if an artist with no sense of depth had just 
slathered paint across the horizon. On the wall opposite the window, his 
plants sat in rows on shelving under a low-hanging bank of grow lights. His 
antique rolltop desk, a gift from Dare, sat next to the door. A plate of 
gingerbread cookies Greg had baked two days before sat in the middle of 
the bed. 

Grabbing a cookie, Hadi asked, “What’s this urgent meeting about?” 

“Yeah,” Cyril squeaked. “I was going to go to the day-after Christmas 
sales with my mom.” 


Hadi shook his head. “Seriously, dude. Do you listen to yourself? You 
might as well wear a T-shirt that says, ‘Make fun of me.’ ” 

Greg threw a dirty sock at Hadi. “Leave him alone. If he likes to shop 
with his mom, he likes to shop with his mom.” 

Hadi gave Greg a mock bow. “You make a point.” He nodded toward 
Cyril, this time for real. “Sorry.” 

“S’ okay.” 

In the silence that followed, Greg weighed how he was going to explain 
everything. Well, maybe he wasn’t going to explain everything. Maybe just 
some things. For sure he had to tell them about Fetch. 

He looked over to his nightstand, which held stacks of books, papers, 
and his phone, still receiving texts from Fetch. His most recent, an hour 
before Cyril and Hadi showed up, was: 

Do U need food 4 meeting? 

No, thank you, Greg texted back. 

He took a deep breath and wrinkled his nose at the scent of the lavender 
air freshener his mother had put someplace in his room. (He’d been looking 
for it but hadn’t found it yet. He preferred the smell of his sweaty clothes, 
thank you very much.) “Okay, so there’s no way to say this but to say it,” he 
began. 

Hadi and Cyril looked at him. 

“Fetch has been sending me texts.” 

His friends stared at him. They blinked in unison. 

“Who’s Fetch?” Hadi asked. 

“Wait—you mean that dog thing? That prize fr-from the pizzeria? Is this 
a joke?” Cyril asked. 

Greg shook his head. He picked up one of the stacks of papers from his 
nightstand—all the text messages he’d printed out—and held it out to Cyril. 
“Look.” 

He waited while Cyril and Hadi scooted together so they could read the 
texts at the same time. 

“This can’t be real,” Cyril said. His voice was even higher than normal. 

Hadi grabbed the stack of printouts and flipped through them. He 
glanced at Greg then said to Cyril, “He wouldn’t prank us like that.” 

“No, I wouldn’t,” Greg said. “Want to see my phone? I’m smart, but I’m 
not smart enough to spoof texts on my phone.” 


Hadi shook his head. He abruptly stood and started pacing in a tiny circle 
on Greg’s blue-and-maroon braided rug. 

“Tt must have synced with your phone, dude,” Hadi said finally. 

Greg nodded. “Yeah, except—” 

“Whoa, wait,’ Cyril said. “I’m not a techie, but I don’t see how 
something as old as that animatronic dog could sync up with a modern 
smartphone. That’s just not possible.” 

“Obviously, it is, though,” Hadi said. 

“It’s not just syncing.” Greg reached for the muddy plastic bag 
containing the spider and held it up. He felt like he should say, “Exhibit A,” 
but didn’t. 

“What’s that?” Cyril shifted away so fast he fell off the bed with a thud. 

Greg suppressed a laugh while Cyril jumped up. 

“Sorry,” Greg said. “It’s not real.” He told them the story of the picnic 
and then the appearance of the unearthed bag on his doorstep. 

Cyril gaped at him, then looked from Hadi to Greg and back to Hadi. 
“No way.” 

“Let me see that.” Hadi snatched the bag from Greg’s grasp and 
examined it. “Those are teeth marks!” 

“No way,” Cyril repeated. 

“Way,” Hadi said. 

“It’s like my plants, I think,” Greg began. It was time to share what he 
was sure was behind all of this. 

Hadi and Cyril stared at him. “What?” Hadi asked. 

“Have you heard of Cleve Backster?” Greg asked, pretty sure they 
hadn’t. 

They shook their heads. 

“He was a polygraph expert who started doing experiments with plants 
in the 1960s.” 

“Okay,” Hadi said. “So what?” 

“So, in the 1960s, Backster had the idea to hook up a plant to a 
polygraph machine to see if he could measure how long osmosis took. 
Although he didn’t learn a thing about osmosis, he stumbled upon 
something else, something super cool.” Greg stopped. 

Cyril and Hadi were still staring at the spider in the bag. They probably 
weren’t even listening to him, and even if they were, Greg realized there 


was no way he was ready to tell them his theory. 

“What if someone was in the building with us and now they’re watching 
you?” Cyril asked, confirming that he and Hadi hadn’t been listening. 

“What? Like a stalker?” Hadi asked. 

“And he bugged my phone or something?” Greg asked. “That’s just 
crazy.” 

But was it any crazier than what he thought was going on? 

Greg’s phone buzzed. He picked it up and read the incoming text. He 
dropped the phone on the bed. 

Hadi and Cyril looked from the phone to Greg. 

He pointed at it. When they leaned over to look at it, he looked, too, and 
read the text again: 

EL. 

“What’s EL?” Cyril asked. 

Hadi went pale. He met Greg’s wide-eyed gaze. 

“Evil laugh,” they said in unison. 

An animatronic dog that wanted to be helpful was one thing. An 
animatronic dog that wanted to be helpful and had a sense of humor was 
okay. But an animatronic dog who had an agenda ... that was, well, scary. 

After that, Greg stopped trying to get Hadi and Cyril to understand what 
he thought was going on with Fetch. So when they finished freaking out 
about Fetch’s text, he told them he’d keep them posted and decided it was 
time to conduct more experiments. 

Going to the abandoned restaurant in itself had been a test, and he still 
wasn’t sure how that had turned out. It had started with him putting an 
intention out, a desire backed by his will that it unfold. That had led to an 
impulse to act. The impulse had taken him to the restaurant, where he found 
Fetch. But how did Fetch play into the grand scheme of things? 

He had to figure it out. 

He decided to start with something small and specific. 

The next day, he got his first experiment’s result. In Advanced Scientific 
Theory, Mr. Jacoby, looking even more nerdy than usual in a blue checked 
short-sleeved shirt under a red-and-blue argyle sweater vest, started his 


lecture with, “So now that we understand the Zero Point Field, let’s see if 
we can figure out what it means for the real world. To this end, we’re going 
to talk about REGs.” 

Awesome! Greg thought. 

“A random event generator, usually referred to as an REG,” Mr. Jacoby 
said, “is a machine that basically flips a coin. Not really, of course. But it’s 
a machine that’s designed to generate a random output, just the same as 
you’d get by flipping a coin, assuming you’re not cheating at it.” Mr. 
Jacoby grinned then continued. “Instead of heads or tails, REGs produce a 
positive or negative pulse and then turn the pulses into ones and zeros, 
which as you know is binary code, the language of computers. Once the 
pulses are in binary code, they can be stored and counted. Researchers built 
the REGs as a way of studying the impact that focused thought has on 
events. Make sense?” 

Greg nodded, and he noticed Kimberly did as well. 

“Excellent.” Mr. Jacoby clapped his hands once. “So I was able to get a 
small REG, and now it’s time to do some intention experiments with it. I’m 
assigning partners.” 

Greg held his breath. Will it work? 

He only had to wait through two pairings to find out. “Greg and 
Kimberly,” Mr. Jacoby said, “Pair up.” 

Kimberly turned gracefully in her chair, her hair sweeping through the 
air like she was in a shampoo commercial. She smiled at Greg, and his 
bones nearly disintegrated. He had to clutch the lab table to stay in his seat. 

His intention had worked. 

Grinning back at Kimberly and waving at her so exuberantly that her 
own smile faltered a little, Greg forced himself to stay seated. He had 
enough wits about him to know that if he did a happy dance, he’d be 
laughed at for years. 

Mr. Jacoby made everyone move around so partners were seated 
together. He instructed them to exchange phone numbers because they’d 
need to stay in contact. Greg had to concentrate to keep his hand steady 
when he passed his phone to Kimberly and took her phone, tucked into a 
bright purple case, to enter his number. After they returned each other’s 
phones and Mr. Jacoby started explaining the experiment’s instructions, 
Greg’s phone buzzed, and per class rules, he ignored it. It wasn’t until he 


was out in the hall, after he and Kimberly set a time to meet to do the first 
step of the experiment, that he checked his phone. Fetch had texted. 
Congrats. 


At the end of the day, Greg couldn’t wait to get home to record the triumph 
in his journal. Unfortunately, he’d missed the bus that morning, and he’d 
had to bike to school. That wasn’t a problem, but now the wind was 
blowing from the southeast, and he couldn’t bike hard enough to overcome 
the gusts trying to shove him back toward the school. Eventually he gave up 
and walked his bike the rest of the way to his house. He was so lost in 
thought he forgot about the tiny terror that lived next door. 

It was like a rabid furry missile was careening toward him at top speed. 
He nearly jumped to Mars when the dog launched itself from an outdoor 
table and threw itself over the fence right at him. 

“Crap!” He let go of his bike and dropped his backpack, catching the dog 
just as it hit his chest and started snapping at his jugular. What was it with 
this dog? On reflex, he pushed the dog back over the short fence. 

When the dog hit the ground, it came up barking and snarling, and it 
flung itself against the wooden boards. Greg didn’t wait to see what it 
would do next. He grabbed his bike and backpack and ran for his house. 
Once inside, he realized he was hyperventilating. Sinking to the floor in the 
puddle created by his dripping coat, he texted Hadi, Devil Dog just tried to 
slash my throat. Scared the hell out of me. 

U OK? Hadi responded. 

Shaken, not stirred. 

Hadi texted back, LOL. 


x k 


That night, Greg had nightmares. Not a surprise. He spent the whole night 
in the abandoned pizzeria being chased alternately by Fetch, a faceless man, 
and the dog next door while plants grew so fast inside the restaurant that the 
place turned into a jungle. On the stage, an REG spewed out Os and 1s 
almost too fast for the eye to register. 


Greg woke up covered in sweat. Did the dream mean it was working ... 
or not? 

Shaking off the bad night, Greg scowled out the window at the sideways 
rain. More wind? Apparently Dare was right about this year’s winter 
storms. 

He threw on some clothes quickly, already late for school. Racing to the 
door, Greg waved at his mom, who was on the phone. He ignored his dad, 
who was scowling at a spreadsheet on his laptop while he guzzled coffee. 

Greg threw on his rain jacket, grabbed his backpack, and went out the 
door and down the steps. That’s where he came to a stop so abrupt, he lost 
his balance and had to grab the stair railing. 

His eyes widened. His pulse rate flew into overdrive, and his stomach 
clenched. 

This couldn’t be happening. 

Tuming away from what was in front of him, Greg staggered to the 
nearest bush and threw up. All he had in his stomach was water, which 
came up, along with yellow bile. Then, even though his stomach was 
empty, it lurched some more and he endured a couple rounds of dry heaves. 

Finally, he collapsed onto the bottom step of the stairs and wiped his 
mouth. His fingers were stiff and cold. 

He took several deep breaths, cringing at the sour smell of his vomit and 
the stench coming from next to his bike. Greg stood. He didn’t want to 
stand, and his legs felt so weak it was clear they weren’t on board with the 
idea, either, but he had to do something before his parents came out. 

Looking around wildly, as if someone might appear to help him—which 
actually was the last thing he wanted—he tried to figure out what to do. 
Well, he knew what he had to do. He had to move it. Which meant he had to 
touch it. 

No way was he going to touch it. 

He smacked himself on the forehead. “Think, dummy!” 

The admonition worked. He dug his keys out of his pocket and strode to 
the garden shed tucked against the back of his house. Dropping his keys 
twice before he could get the right one in the lock, he was drenched by the 
time he stepped inside the shed and retrieved the black plastic garbage bag 
he was after. 


Now that he was in action, he moved at hyperspeed. He slammed and 
locked the shed door, not worrying about the sound because the wind and 
rain drowned out everything. He raced back to his bike. 

And once again, he had to confront what he didn’t want to look at. This 
time, he made himself look, really look. 

The neighbor’s dog lay, dead, against the back wheel of Greg’s bike tire. 
Its throat torn apart, its belly gutted, intestines flopping onto the concrete. It 
was stiff, and its eyes were wide open, as if staring in fear, maybe for the 
first ... and last ... time of its life. Greg forced himself to examine the dog’s 
fatal wounds. Yeah. It’s just what his subconscious mind told him in his 
first glance. The dog hadn’t been killed with a knife or some other sharp 
object. It had been ferociously ripped by teeth and claws. It had been 
attacked by another animal. 

Greg gagged and swallowed down another dry heave. Breathing through 
his mouth, he opened the plastic bag and put it down over the dog. Once he 
had it covered, he slipped the bag under the animal and used the plastic to 
scoop up the entrails. When he had it all, he carried the bag to the bushes 
between his and his neighbor’s house and emptied it into the bushes. The 
dog fell with a sickening splat onto the ground. 

Greg looked up at his house to be sure neither of his parents were 
looking out the window. Nope. All good. The neighbor’s house was one 
story. They couldn’t see into his yard, and this part of the yard was sheltered 
from the street. No one was watching him. Even so, this probably wasn’t 
the best plan in the world. 

But it was the best he had. 

If the dog was a human, forensics would point to Greg in a nanosecond. 
But the corpse was a dog. He didn’t figure there’d be much of an 
investigation when the body was found. It looked like the nasty little thing 
had been mauled by a coyote. 

But it hadn’t been. 

As much as he’d love to convince himself that’s what happened, Greg 
knew no coyote would kill a dog and then pose it next to Greg’s bike. 
Because the dog had clearly been posed. Although a little blood from the 
dog’s neck and intestines stained the concrete next to Greg’s tire, it wasn’t 
nearly enough blood for the savagery of the dog’s wounds. The dog must 
have been killed someplace else. 


No, coyotes had nothing to do with the dog’s death. 

Greg realized he was frozen in place by the bush. He wadded up the 
plastic bag, trotted to the trash bin under his house, and stuffed it inside one 
of the bags of kitchen trash. He closed the lid. 

That’s when his phone buzzed. 

He didn’t want to look at it. 

But he had to. The incoming text was, as Greg knew it would be, from 
Fetch: 


YW. 


Greg was still staring at the screen when another text came in, this one 
from Hadi: WRU? 

He should have been at Hadi’s house to catch the bus there five minutes 
ago. He quickly texted, SRY. L8. 

Then he grabbed his bike and pedaled out into the rain, hoping that the 
wind at his back would help him get to Hadi’s before the bus arrived. 

Greg spent the day paying very little attention to what was going on around 
him. Every chance he got, he pulled out his phone and scrolled back to 
delete old text messages. 

The spider had spooked him. But the dead dog had terrified him ... Fetch 
had killed the dog to help Greg. What other “help” would Fetch try to offer? 
It didn’t take long after finding the dog for Greg to conclude that Fetch 
could do all kinds of nasty things with what Greg had said he wanted. So he 
tried to find any text in which he’d suggested he wanted or needed 
anything. 

But the problem was, Fetch seemed to be doing more than accessing old 
messages or conversations. Fetch seemed to be listening in to Greg’s life. 
How? 

Greg needed to talk to Hadi and Cyril. He needed their help. 

Unfortunately, two days passed before he was able to convince Hadi and 
Cyril to help him do what he knew he needed to do. He wasn’t able to tell 


them about the neighbor’s dog until after school. Predictably, they were 
freaked. Cyril wanted to forget it as soon as he heard it. Hadi, though, 
wanted to see “the stiff.” So he followed Greg home, and they stood 
together in the rain staring at the dead dog, which was now a wet, grisly pile 
of viscera and fur. 

“T want to go back to the restaurant,” Greg told Hadi once they were up 
in Greg’s room. 

Hadi stared at him. “After that,” he waved a hand in the direction of 
where the dead dog lay, “you want to go back?” 

“Well, want is probably not the right word. But I need to. I have to know 
what’s going on.” 

Hadi shook his head and said he was going home. 

But Greg was persistent. He hounded Hadi and Cyril relentlessly via text 
that evening and in person the next moming and on the phone the next 
afternoon until he convinced them to return to the restaurant with him. After 
school, they huddled together in the school lobby before racing through the 
rain to their bus. 

“Tt will still be raining tonight,” Greg told them. “Fewer people out.” 

“Yeah. Whatever,” Hadi said. 

“We’re going to die,” Cyril said. 

Greg laughed. “We’re not going to die.” 

So why was his stomach doing somersaults, and why had his heart 
relocated to his throat? 


It was a little harder to get away from their families on a Wednesday night, 
but they managed it by saying they were going to do homework together at 
Greg’s house. His parents, per usual, were out. His mom had taken a part- 
time job as a front desk clerk at one of the hotels. He wasn’t sure what that 
was about, and he didn’t ask. His dad was working late on his most recent 
build. “I hate the finishing work,” he’d complained that morning. “That’s 
when the client always gets nitpicky.” 

The first time they’d gone to the restaurant, Greg and his friends had 
been armed only with a crowbar and flashlights. This time, they also each 


brought along kitchen knives, and Hadi stuck his baseball bat in his 
backpack. 

It was just as easy to break into the restaurant the second time ... 
actually, even easier. The service door lock they’d broken hadn’t been 
repaired or replaced. They just had to pull the heavy door open and slip 
through. 

Once inside, they flipped on their flashlights and shined them around. 
They started with the ground. Clearly, they all had the same idea. They were 
looking for footprints other than theirs in the dust covering the cracked blue 
linoleum floor. Unfortunately, they’d scuffed up the dust so much on their 
first trip it was impossible to tell for sure whether anyone else had been 
here. 

“Do we have a plan?” Cyril asked when they moved out into the 
hallway. 

Greg noticed all three of them were breathing fast. His voice sounded 
breathless when he said, “I think we should start by finding Fetch.” 

They walked shoulder to shoulder along the hallway. It was much quieter 
in the building this time because the rain, although steady, was soft. It was 
foggy, too. That tended to dampen sounds. 

“So, I found out something about the restaurant,” Cyril said. His voice 
sounded too loud and too forced. 

“What?” Hadi asked. 

“This was part of a pizza chain that ... closed down after something 
happened at one of them.” 

“What happened?” Greg asked. 

“T don’t know. It took a lot of time to even find what I found. I just found 
a reference to it on a message board for people who like to explore 
abandoned places.” 

Hadi came to a dead stop, his flashlight beam jittering out onto the floor 
in front of him. 

“What?” Cyril asked. 

Greg looked along the illuminated shaft of Hadi’s light. 

Cyril squealed. 

Greg couldn’t blame him. 

Dog tracks came out of the pizzeria’s eating area and headed toward the 
lobby. 


“What the—?” Hadi still hadn’t budged. 

“You did turn it on,” Cyril said to Greg. 

“Yeah, way to go, dude,” Hadi said. 

Before Greg could respond, a clatter and crash came from inside one of 
the closed doorways along the hall. 

Cyril squealed again. Hadi dropped his flashlight. 

“We need to see what’s in those rooms,” Greg said. 

Hadi retrieved his flashlight and shined it in Greg’s face. Greg squeezed 
his eyes shut and turned away. 

“Are you out of your mind?” Hadi asked. 

“Probably. But I have to know what’s going on. I’m going to check it 
out. You don’t have to if you don’t want to.” 

“T don’t want to,” Cyril said. 

“Fine.” Greg dug the crowbar out of his backpack, looked at the knife, 
and concluded that he didn’t have enough hands to hold a crowbar, a knife, 
and his flashlight. So he got a firm grip on both crowbar and flashlight then 
took five steps toward the nearest closed door. He noticed a small sign he’d 
missed the last time. It read CONTROL ROOM. 

He stuck the crowbar under his arm and reached for the doorknob. 

Hadi appeared at his side. “Can’t let you go in there alone, dude.” He 
produced the baseball bat from his backpack and gripped it hard. 

Cyril scurried over. “I’m not waiting out here by myself!” 

“Thanks,” Greg said. 

He turned the knob, took a breath, and threw the door open. He quickly 
re-armed himself with the crowbar. 

All three flashlight beams sliced through the dusty blackness and 
revealed a bank of old computer monitors, keyboards, and what looked like 
control panels filled with dials and knobs. Nothing else was in the room. 

“T don’t see anything that could have made that sound,” Hadi said. 

Greg nodded. “Let’s try the next room.” 

“Wait.” Hadi crossed to the nearest keyboard and tapped keys. He turned 
a couple dials on the control panels. Nothing happened. He shrugged. “Had 
to check.” 

Cyril, gaining courage from his friend, came farther into the room and 
tapped and pushed buttons, too. Still nothing happened. 


Greg left the room and headed to the next closed door. As he figured 
they would, his friends followed. 

This door was marked SECURITY and the room behind it was similar to 
the first one. More dated computer monitors looked back at the boys 
blankly. Nothing worked. 

One last closed door. This one was labeled STORAGE. 

“The sound must have come from in here,” Greg said. He reached for the 
knob. But Cyril grabbed his arm. “Wait!” 

Greg looked at Cyril. 

“You never told us what you wanted to do here. Why are we here?” 

“Yeah, dude,” Hadi agreed. “You kept saying you had to ‘see.’ See 
what? Fetch? What are you going to do when you see him? Interrogate 
him? Reason with him? He’s a piece of machinery.” 

“Yeah,” Cyril said, “and when we left him, he wasn’t in there.” He 
pointed to the door. 

Greg didn’t know how to explain why he needed to be here. “I have to 
know whether someone else was here and is pranking us. And if it’s Fetch, I 
want to see how it’s working.” 

He didn’t bother explaining why he had to look in this room. Before they 
could protest again, he opened the door. 

And he fell back into his friends. Cyril screamed. Hadi gasped. 

Staring back at the boys, in the gleaming streams of their lights, were 
four life-size animatronic characters. They were at least five times bigger 
than Fetch, who was about the size of a beagle. 

Greg recovered himself first. He aimed his light around the room. Every 
time the beam landed on something, Greg’s breath caught. The room didn’t 
just house the four characters. It was also filled with animatronic parts and 
character costumes, a whole wardrobe full of them. 

Dozens of pairs of sightless eyes stared at them through the flashlight- 
transected gloom. Or at least Greg hoped they were sightless. 

His friends hadn’t spoken since they opened the door. Suddenly, a raspy 
humming sound filled the room. The boys’ lights skittered all over the 
space, searching for the sound’s origin. 

One of the animatronic characters seemed to move its leg, and then 
something small, dark, and furry shot out from behind it, arced toward the 


boys, barked, and then bolted out of the room. Before they could do more 
than gasp in unison, whatever it was disappeared from view. 

Cyril shrieked and tore from the room. Greg and Hadi were at his heels. 

This wasn’t a thinking moment. 

That was Fetch that had leaped out at them, wasn’t it? 

Had to be. 

Even though Hadi or Greg could have hit Fetch, or whatever that thing 
was, with the baseball bat or crowbar, Greg’s brain didn’t even consider 
that. Apparently Hadi’s didn’t, either. They had just one conscious idea in 
their heads: run. 

As they dashed down the hallway toward their exit, Greg tried not to 
hear the growling and claw-tapping that followed them. He also firmly 
closed the door on his mind when it tried to ask questions about how Fetch 
... No! Not going there. 

Get out, get out, get out. That was the only agenda. 

It took them only seconds to reach the door and squeeze through it, Cyril 
in the lead and Greg bringing up the rear. Was that a nip at his heel right 
before he pulled his foot through and shut the door? 

Not going there, either. 

Without speaking, the boys grabbed their bikes, but just as they did, a 
whine behind them made them pause. With a shaking hand, Greg aimed his 
flashlight at the pizzeria. 

A wet, stray mutt trotted toward them, but when Cyril yelped in fear, the 
dog veered away into the fir trees that surrounded the abandoned building. 

“Tt wasn’t Fetch.” Greg let go of his bike. 

“T don’t care,” Cyril said. 

“T do,” Greg said. “I want to find Fetch and figure out what he’s doing. 
I’m going back in.” 

“I’m going home,” Cyril said. 

Hadi looked from Greg to Cyril and back again. Greg shrugged—albeit a 
little shakily—and headed toward the pizzeria. 

“You can’t go in there alone.” Hadi let go of his bike, too, and followed 
Greg. He looked at Cyril. “The real dog made that noise we heard and 
probably the tracks, too.” 

Cyril hugged himself then sighed. “If I die, I’m going to come back and 
kill you both.” 


“That’s fair,” Greg said. 

The boys re-entered the pizzeria. They stuck close together as they went 
down the hall, closing the storage room door as they went past. Without 
speaking, they made their way to the dining area. 

Their flashlight beams zooming this way and that like spotlights, they 
crossed the room to the prize counter. They only got halfway there before 
they all paused. 

They didn’t have to get any closer to see what they came to see. 

Fetch was no longer on the counter. 

Greg flicked his beam to the floor and then all around the prize counter. 
No Fetch. 

“Maybe he fell behind the counter,” Hadi suggested, not sounding 
particularly convinced of his theory. 

“Maybe.” 

Since neither of his friends moved, Greg took a huge breath and shuffled 
forward. “Let me know if you see anything,” he told his friends. 

“We’ve got your back,” Hadi said. 

Greg wasn’t so sure, but he had to know if Fetch was there. Ignoring the 
trickle of sweat that ran down between his shoulder blades, Greg reached 
the counter and started tiptoeing around it. 

“Dude,” Hadi said, “don’t you think he would have heard us by now?” 

Greg flinched. Good point. He laughed, but the sound was more of a 
croak when it came out. So he rushed around the counter and threw his light 
beam everywhere it could reach. 

Fetch wasn’t there. 

Greg turned and looked at his friends. “Fetch is gone.” 

“What are you going to do?” Cyril asked. 

“I’m ... not sure,” Greg confessed. 

Hadi, ever the optimist, jumped in. “What if you text him to stop? Or to 
leave you alone? He has to listen to you, right? It’s in his programming.” 

“Tried that.” Greg sighed. “Didn’t work.” 

“Could you give him an impossible task?” Cyril asked. “Something that 
would occupy his time forever?” 

“Like what?” 

“T don’t know, I’m just trying to find an easy—” 

“There is no easy solution,” Greg snapped. “I just ... need time to think.” 


As a unit, the boys headed back out the way they’d come in. No one 
suggested looking around more. Not even Greg. None of them spoke. They 
just went back outside, got on their bikes, and pedaled hard into fog that 
was now so thick the restaurant disappeared into it. They pedaled in silence 
only broken by the pattering rain, the swooshing sound of their wheels on 
the wet pavement, and their panting breath. 

At the corner where they normally stopped to say goodbye before biking 
on to their respective houses, no one even slowed. They all just headed for 
home. Greg understood. None of them were ready to talk about what had 
just happened. 

Greg wasn’t sorry to get home and find his parents were still out. He 
was, in fact, relieved they didn’t see him. When he looked at himself in the 
bathroom mirror, he was so pale his features almost disappeared into the 
blank whiteness of his face. 

A long, hot shower brought color back to his skin, and it brought 
conscious thought back to his mind. Where was Fetch? 

Even though he knew Fetch would have had to leave the restaurant to 
dig up the spider and kill the neighbor’s dog, Greg had convinced himself 
Fetch went back to the restaurant when his duty was done. The idea of him 
being out there, somewhere, lurking ... 

The hair on the back of Greg’s neck prickled. Suddenly remembering his 
phone, he stared at the green sweats he’d left crumpled on the floor. His 
phone was in one of the pockets. 

Taking a long breath, he bent over and retrieved the phone, checking for 
missed texts. 

Sure enough. There was Fetch’s latest text: 

H2CUS. 

“Yeah, well, I don’t hope to see you soon,” Greg muttered. 

Greg didn’t allow himself to ask all the questions that wanted to be asked 
after their latest encounter with Fetch. Instead, he decided to concentrate on 
school for a change, specifically, on Spanish. If he didn’t get on top of his 
Spanish homework, he was going to fail the class. So on Saturday morning, 
he texted Manuel asking if he had time to help him. Manuel didn’t respond. 


Greg shrugged. Okay, so he’d have to muddle through on his own. He 
opened his Spanish workbook and picked up his pencil. 

Then he snapped his pencil in half when he realized what he’d just done. 

“Oh no!” Greg shouted. He jumped up. He had to get to ... 

“Crap!” He didn’t know where he needed to go! 

Greg grabbed his phone and called Cyril. 

“I’m not going back there,” Cyril said. 

“That’s not why I’m calling. Do you know where Manuel lives?” 

“Sure. He’s about a half mile up the street from me. That’s how we met.” 
He gave Greg an address. “Why do you need ... ?” 

“T’ve gotta go. Sorry. I’ll explain later.” Greg shoved his phone in his 
pocket and tore out of his house. Grabbing his bike, he ignored the steady 
mist and pedaled as hard as he could. 

Greg nearly collapsed in horror when he got to Manuel’s house and saw that 
the front door was wide open. Was he too late? 

Right after he’d texted Manuel, he’d realized Fetch could have 
interpreted that text as instruction to retrieve Manuel. Given what Fetch had 
done to the neighbor’s dog, Greg was afraid Fetch might punish Manuel for 
not being available to help Greg. Or worse, Fetch might kill Manuel and 
drag his body to Greg’s house. There was no telling what the animatronic 
beast was capable of. 

Dropping his bike on the concrete driveway, Greg ran to the gaping 
doorway and peered into the tile-covered entryway of the small one-story 
house. He broke out in a cold sweat when he saw muddy paw prints on the 
gray squares. 

“Manuel?” he shouted, taking a step into the house. 

“iQue pasa?” a voice called from behind Greg. 

A dog barked. 

Greg whirled around. Manuel and a yellow Labrador were standing at 
the edge of a front yard filled with patches of grass and exposed dirt. The 
dog had a red ball in its mouth, and its feet were muddy. 

Greg’s heart, which had been trying to set a speed record, settled into a 
more normal pace. “Hey, Manuel.” 


“Hi, Greg.” Manuel’s smile was friendly but confused. 

Not a surprise. How could Greg explain why he was here? 

“Um, I sent you a text, but you didn’t respond. Needed a bike ride 
anyway, so I thought I’d stop by—Cyril told me you lived down the street 
from him. I wondered if you had time to help me with my Spanish.” 

Manuel’s confusion disappeared. “Sure. Sorry about the text. I left my 
phone inside. I can do it now, if Oro will let us.” The dog next to him 
barked. 

Greg, so relieved that he’d imagined danger that didn’t exist, grinned at 
the dog. “Hi, Oro. Want me to throw the ball?” 

Oro wagged his tail but didn’t move. 

Manuel laughed. “He understands Spanish. Say, ‘Trdaeme la pelota.’” 

Greg repeated the command. 

Oro brought him the ball. 

Greg laughed. “Maybe I don’t need your help. Maybe Oro can help me.” 

Manual laughed, too, and for the next hour, Greg forgot all about Fetch 
while he played with Oro and improved his Spanish. 

The rest of the weekend passed without any disturbing incidents. And when 
Monday came, Greg was in a great mood. He was all about his most recent 
triumph, getting Kimberly as his lab partner. He’d intended it; it had 
happened. And after his most recent intention with Fetch seemed to thwart 
him, it looked like Greg was actually learning to use the Zero Point Field. 
Score! 

Greg and Kimberly had their first meet-up after school the next day in 
the science lab. Every team had been given a set time to use the REG 
machine Mr. Jacoby got for their experiments. Greg and Kimberly were 
second to use the machine. 

Their assignment was to attempt to control, with their minds, the Os and 
1s generated by the machine. Both were to focus their will on either Os or 1s 
(Greg took Os, and Kimberly took 1s) for a total of ten minutes each. They 
were to record their results, and then they were supposed to write a paper 
about some aspect of REG research and how it impacted society. Greg had 


thought he’d have to be the one to suggest a topic, but Kimberly beat him to 
it. 

Sitting cross-legged on the floor after they used the REG machine, 
Kimberly said, “I have an idea for the paper.” She pulled out her phone and 
tapped at it. Greg stared at her hands. She had the prettiest hands. Today, 
her nails were bright blue. They matched the tight blue sweater she wore. 
He tried not to stare ... 

“Are you listening?” 

“T’m sorry. What?” 

Even though Greg had known Kimberly for seven years, he was pretty 
sure he’d never said more than two words to her at a time. Whenever he had 
the chance to talk to her, his brain drained down his legs and puddled in his 
shoes. He’d gotten her as a partner now, but how was he going to talk to 
her? 

“T said I think we should write about how REGs influence big world 
disasters.” 

Wow. She knew that? 

If he hadn’t been in love before, he sure was now. 

“Yeah,” he agreed. “That’s perfect.” 

“You know about it?” She looked up at him. 

Greg still sat in his chair, but now he slid down onto the beige-tiled floor 
so he could see her better. Stoked by her idea, he forgot to be nervous. 
“Yeah. I’ve been following the way REGs have been used to study the 
power of thinking for a couple years.” 

“That’s Gucci!” Kimberly gave him one of her full smiles. 

He grinned back like an idiot. 

He was so excited about her paper topic that he wasn’t as bummed about 
the fact that Kimberly had done better with the REG machine then he had. 
No matter how much he concentrated, his machine’s results were barely 
above a normal random readout. 

“T tried to talk to my parents about it,” Kimberly said. “They’re pretty 
open-minded, but Mom said it was too ‘out there,’ and Dad said the 
machines were probably being set up to get the results the people wanted. 
But they’re not!” Kimberly leaned forward, her eyes bright. 

Greg couldn’t believe she was as into this stuff as he was. “I know,” 
Greg said, leaning in, too. 


“And did you know they get spikes before big sporting events?” 

He hesitated only a second before saying, “Do you know about Cleve 
Backster?” 

Kimberly blinked. “No. Who’s he?” 

“He was an interrogation instructor for the CIA, and he taught classes on 
using the polygraph machine.” 

“Okay.” Kimberly put her elbows on her knees, clearly focused on what 
he was saying. 

He couldn’t believe he had her full attention. He tried not to let himself 
be distracted by her peaches and cream perfume. 

“So what about him?” Kimberly prompted. 

Greg cleared his throat. “Well, he started using the polygraph machine to 
do experiments on plants, and he discovered plants can sense our thoughts.” 

“My mother sings to her plants because she says it makes them grow 
faster.” 

Greg nodded. “They probably do.” 

“That’s why I was surprised my mom didn’t believe the REG stuff.” 

“T think it freaks people out,” Greg said. 

Kimberly nodded. “So is there more about this polygraph guy?” 

“Yeah. So Backster experimented with the plant’s reactions to his 
actions. Like, he burned a plant and got a reaction, but not just in the burned 
plant. Nearby plants reacted, too! And then he just thought about burning 
the plants, and the second he had that thought, the polygraph recorded a 
reaction in all the plants. Like the plants had read his mind.” 

“Whoa!” 

Greg nodded so hard he felt like a bobblehead doll. “Yeah, I know!” He 
grinned. “Most people didn’t believe Backster when he published his 
results. But he kept experimenting, not only with plants but with human 
cells, and he proved that cells can sense thoughts. They have a 
consciousness.” 

Kimberly twirled a lock of her shiny hair with an index finger. “So if 
cells have consciousness, then why’s it such a leap to think our brains can 
influence a machine?” 

“Exactly!” 

“We should include that in our paper,” Kimberly said. “It’s good stuff.” 


“Yeah. I thought it was so cool that I decided to do my own experiments. 
My uncle got me a polygraph machine, and I started trying things with my 
plants. It actually works. They know what I’m thinking ... well, at least the 
simple stuff.” 

“Wow!” 

“Yeah. I’ve been trying other things, too.” Greg hesitated. Should he tell 
her? 

“Like what?” she asked. 

Greg chewed his lip. Oh, why not? He scooted closer to her and lowered 
his voice. “Do you remember what Mr. Jacoby said about the Zero Point 
Field, that it means all matter in the universe is interconnected by subatomic 
waves that connect one part of the universe to every other part?” 

“Yeah, sure.” 

“Well, I read about the field over the summer, and when I read it, I got 
really excited. I read that researchers are saying this field could explain lots 
of stuff no one could explain before, stuff like chi and telepathy and other 
psychic abilities.” 

“T have a cousin who’s psychic,” Kimberly said. “She always knows 
when there’s going to be a test at her school.” Kimberly laughed. “I’ve been 
trying to get her to teach me how to do that.” 

Greg grinned. “Then you’ll get it.” 

“Get what?” 

“Well, I have some good stuff in my life, but there’s so much I hate. Like 
my dad and ... well, just stuff. So I figured I could learn to use the field, 
you know? Communicate with it. Tell it what I want and get it to tell me 
what to do. So I’ve been practicing on my plants, seeing if they’d respond 
to my intention, and then I started just concentrating on things I wanted and 
seeing if I got any ideas, you know, like ...” 

“Guidance?” 

“Yeah.” 

Kimberly slowly nodded. “I get what you’re trying to do.” She wrinkled 
up her perfect nose. “The problem is, well,” she shrugged, “I just wonder if 
trying to get the field to work is like a monkey trying to fly an airplane. 
He’s going to crash and burn before he can figure it out.” 

Greg tried not to let her see that her words felt like a kick in the gut. She 
obviously did see, though, “Not that you’re a monkey, I mean. I just mean 


quantum stuff is hard. I like it, too, and I’ve tried to read about it, but I 
don’t get it. Not really.” 

“Hey!” Trent White burst into the room. “You two smashing face in here 
or what?” 

Kimberly blushed deep red. 

“Shut up, Trent,” Greg said. 

“Shut up yourself. Your time’s up. Our turn.” Trent gestured toward his 
project partner, another school athlete, Rory. 

Greg still couldn’t believe they were both in Advanced Scientific 
Theory. 

“We’re done.” Kimberly scrambled to her feet. 

She and Greg left the room. “Let’s get together over the weekend to talk 
more about the paper,” she suggested. 

“Sure.” 


After Greg got home from school, he texted Hadi and Cyril, asking them to 
come over. 

While he waited, he looked at the latest text from Fetch: 

2EZ. 

“What’s too easy?” Greg responded. 

AOTA. 

“All of the above what?” Greg asked. 

411. 

All of the above information was too easy? What did Fetch mean? Was 
he talking about Greg’s conversation with Kimberly? Was he saying that 
Greg was making the Zero Point Field too easy? And why did Greg care 
about the opinion of an animatronic dog anyway? 

He wanted to ignore Fetch, but then Fetch texted: 

REG M2. 

Fetch then texted a link to a website that sold small REGs. 

Greg didn’t understand what Fetch meant by REG M2. Did M2 mean 
“Me too?” Did that mean Fetch was saying he wanted an REG, too? Or was 
he saying he was an REG? Or like an REG? 


Greg frowned and texted back, Thx. He figured whatever Fetch was 
saying, he should stay on Fetch’s good side. 

Hadi and Cyril came over and brought pizza. Surprisingly, Greg’s 
parents were home, but they were caught up in some intense discussion and 
they both said, “Okay,” when Greg asked if his friends could come over 
with pizza. 

The boys spent their first fifteen minutes wolfing down pepperoni pizza 
and guzzling Coke. When Hadi burped, loudly, Greg decided it was time. 

“We need to talk about what happened the other night.” 

“Do we really?” Cyril asked. 

“Yeah,” Greg said. “Fetch is out there somewhere!” 

“Well, now you’re just being a moron,” Hadi said. “That’s what bothers 
you? That he’s out there somewhere? Yeah, he’s out there. For sure. Fetch is 
animatronic, and you obviously managed to turn him on. But how about the 
fact that Fetch dug up the spider for you or the fact that he killed a dog for 
you?” 

“Yeah, there’s that,” Greg agreed. 

“T think we should destroy it,” Hadi said. 

“T think we should stay away from it,” Cyril said. 

“Yeah, but will Fetch stay away from us?” Greg asked. 

Hadi glared at him. “You’re the one who activated it.” 

Greg threw up his hands. “I didn’t even know what I was doing!” 

“Well, you need to figure it out,” Hadi said. “You’re the smart one.” 

“Yeah,” Cyril agreed. 

“You sound like you’re mad at me,” Greg accused his friends. 

Cyril looked at his tiny feet. Hadi said, “Well ...” 

“You are mad at me! What did I do?” 

“You’re the one who wanted to go there in the first place,” Cyril said. 

Greg opened then closed his mouth. He got up. “Fine. You two can head 
home then. I’1 take care of it.” 

Hadi and Cyril stared at him then looked at each other. “Whatever, 
dude,” Hadi said. “Come on.” He got up and gestured for Cyril to follow. 


An hour later, wearing threadbare sweats and an old tie-dyed T-shirt, lying 
on his back in bed in the dark, Greg said to the ceiling, “I need money.” 

If he had money, more money than he could get from babysitting 
anyway, he could get whatever he needed for his experiments. He could set 
up his own consciousness project. Then he’d know what to do about Fetch. 

Greg grabbed his phone. Over the summer, he’d read an article about 
this thirteen-year-old entrepreneur who set up a home business and was 
making tons of profit. Greg was fourteen, and he was smart. Why couldn’t 
he have a business? He thumbed in a search, “how to make money fast.” 

He spent the next hour skimming through “make money at home” sites. 
By the end of the hour, he was frustrated, confused, and tired. So he got 
ready for bed. Just before he laid down, he picked up his phone and sent 
Dare a text: | need the Magic Finger of Luck. Can U teach me how to 
make money? 

Dare didn’t respond. Greg figured he was probably asleep. Dare usually 
went to bed earlier than Greg did. 

Before he turned off the light, his phone buzzed. A text from Fetch: 

GNSD. 

“Sweet dreams to you, too,” Greg responded, ignoring the chill that 
skirted down his spine. 

He frowned, bothered by something; but he wasn’t sure what it was. He 
was so tired he wasn’t thinking straight. He couldn’t keep his eyes open. So 
he closed them, and he was asleep immediately. 


When Greg woke up, it was still dark out. He erupted from the bed and 
blinked frantically to focus. His last text! What had he been thinking? 

“Idiot!” Greg grabbed his phone and deleted his text to Dare. 

Then he called Dare. 

No answer. 

He pulled up Dare’s landline number and called it. Even if Dare was 
asleep, that phone would wake him. 

No answer. 

What should he do? 


Greg had no way to get up to Dare’s place on his own. It was too far to 
bike. No buses ran up there. How could he get to Dare and warn him? 

A ride. He needed a ride. From who? No way could he ask his parents. 

He thought about Mrs. Peters three doors down. She was always nice to 
him. Maybe ... 

Greg tore off his PJs and pulled on gray sweats and a navy blue hoodie. 
He grabbed his phone and ran out of his room. 

He wasn’t sure how he was going to explain to Mrs. Peters why he 
needed a ride at—what time was it? He checked. Four thirty. 

Well, he’d just have to figure it out. 

In his stocking feet, Greg took the stairs two at a time. Inside the front 
door, he stopped to tug on his rain boots in the entryway. Then he threw 
back the deadbolt and flung the door open. He started to charge through the 
door. 

But then he looked down. 

His legs went out from under him, and he crumpled to the ground. He 
started to heave, covered his mouth, and looked away from what lay on top 
of the WELCOME FRIENDS mat. 

Looking away didn’t help, though. The image was indelibly etched into 
his retinas. In his mind’s eye he could see Dare’s thick finger, the base torn 
and bloody, part of the bone jutting through the gore. The finger was dusky 
and had tufts of light hair. The blood was bright red. Even just in memory, 
the details were excruciating. Greg even noticed that the blood had 
congealed before the finger had been dropped on the mat because the white 
M wasn’t bloody. 

“Greg? What are you doing down here?” Greg’s mom was coming down 
the stairs. 

Greg didn’t think. He snatched up the finger and stuffed it in the pocket 
of his hoody. Grabbing the doorframe, he pulled himself to his feet and shut 
the door. 

“T think I was sleepwalking,” Greg said. Lame. But he was too out of it 
to come up with something better. 

Then he noticed his mom was crying. 

“What’s wrong?” he asked. 

Her eyes and her nose were red. Her mascara was smeared. Her cheeks 
were wet. She wore nothing but her pink fuzzy robe over a white frilly 


nightshirt. She wiped her cheeks and sank down onto the third step from the 
bottom of the stairs. 

“What’s wrong?” he repeated. He rushed to the stairs and sat next to his 
mom. 

She took his hand. “I’m sorry. It’s not the end of the world. I’m just 
shocked, is all. It’s your uncle Darrin.” 

Greg stiffened. 

“You won’t believe this!” his mom said, sobbing. “He got attacked by 
some kind of wild animal. It tore off his finger!” 

Greg couldn’t breathe. He looked down at his hoody pocket. He put his 
hand over it, feeling the ring still wrapped around the grotesquely ripped 
base. When Greg had seen the finger, he’d have known it was Dare’s even 
without the presence of the onyx and gold ring. But the ring? That, more 
than the exposed bone and veins, was what had dismayed him the most. 
Now his eyes filled with tears. He cleared his clogged throat and managed, 
“That’s terrible!” 

“He’s all scratched up, too, mauled. He’s been airlifted to the hospital. I 
just can’t believe this.” 

Greg couldn’t comfort her. He was too busy realizing. 

“Oh no, no, no,” he groaned. 

His mother, not understanding, wrapped her arms around him. “It’s okay. 
Really. I’m sure he’ll be fine. He’ll probably make a joke out of losing his 
finger.” She burst into tears again. 

“No, no, no,” Greg repeated. It was like a mantra, like he could say it 
enough and it would make everything stop and go back to the way it was. 

Disengaging himself from his mom, he touched the hoodie pocket and 
said, “I need air.” He ran to the front door, threw it open, and careened 
down the front stairs. 

It wasn’t raining, but if it had been, he wouldn’t have cared. He had to 
get away. He couldn’t face it. He couldn’t accept what he’d done. 

Because he’d done it. Obviously, he had done it. 

Greg didn’t know where he’d been planning to go when he left his 
house, but before he could go anywhere, he was stopped in his tracks. Was 
that ... ? 

Yes, it was. 


Under the shore pines clustered near the back of his yard, next to the 
matram grass at the edge of the dunes, Fetch sat. His eyes glowed red in the 
now predawn light, and his ears were tilted forward, as if in question. Greg 
was so angry and upset he didn’t even think about running away. Instead, he 
grabbed the baseball bat from his dad’s pile of sporting equipment and took 
one step toward Fetch. Then another. And another. And then he was 
sprinting full out. 

Fetch stood. Eyes bright, he looked at Greg. 

If Fetch had been a real dog, Greg would have thought this was cute. But 
Fetch wasn’t a real dog. He was an animatronic killer made to look like a 
dog. Greg wasn’t going to let the seemingly happy look stop him. 

When Greg reached Fetch, he didn’t hesitate. He swung the bat at 
Fetch’s head. 

The first strike split open the top of Fetch’s head, revealing a metal skull 
and ripped wires. Sparks flew as Greg wound up for another swing. 

“What did you do?!” Greg screamed at the Fetch. 

Fetch’s mouth hinged opened in what looked like a silly grin. Greg 
swung the bat and whacked Fetch’s mouth. Metal teeth sprayed out, and 
more sparks sputtered at the end of wires that hung through the mouth 
opening. 

But Fetch was still looking at Greg with what looked like an eager gaze. 

“Stop it!” Greg shrieked. 

Swinging the bat in a wide arc, he brought it down on Fetch’s head as 
hard as he could. Metal clanged. More sparks flitted out into the wet dune 
grass. And Greg kept up his assault. He pounded on Fetch with the bat. 
Once, twice, three times, four times. Finally, Fetch’s face was pulverized. 
But Greg wasn’t done. He raised the bat again and battered what was left of 
the machine. Soon, the remnants of the animatronic killer didn’t resemble 
anything but a small pile of industrial debris. Still, Greg didn’t stop ... not 
until he had blisters on his palms, and he was chomping at the sea air in 
frantic wide-mouthed gulps. 

Finally, he dropped the bat. 

Greg fell back on his butt in the sloppy wet dunes. He stared at the pile 
of metal, hinges, synthetic fur, and wires as he sat, catching his breath. The 
surf was loud, its rhythmic roar like the chant of a million angry men. To 
Greg, it was the sound of judgment. It was his accuser. How dare he think 


he knew enough about the field to think about luck and expect to get 
money? And what was he thinking when he texted Dare about the Magic 
Finger of Luck? He was the one who’d been wrong. How could he blame 
this on Fetch? 

Fetch might have been like an REG machine in that he seemed to be 
reacting to Greg’s thoughts, but he wasn’t an REG machine. Was he? 

Greg didn’t understand what was going on, but he thought that Fetch 
was responding to more than just his texts. Somehow Fetch was observing 
Greg’s actions and maybe he was even reading his thoughts the way Greg’s 
plants did. Fetch wasn’t the Zero Point Field, but he was part of it. He 
seemed to be acting like he was the field’s dog or something, getting 
whatever the field thought Greg wanted. 

Whatever Fetch was, it was Greg’s fault that Dare got his finger torn off. 

“Greg, you out there?” Greg’s mom called. 

Greg looked at the destroyed animatronic. 

“Greg?” His mother started down the steps. 

Greg and the debris were partially hidden in the marram grass, but if his 
mom came into the backyard, she’d see them. Greg looked around and 
spotted a depression under the driftwood log covered with Fetch’s teeth. He 
quickly shoveled all of Fetch’s parts into the hole and called out, “Coming.” 

His mom wanted Greg to know Dare would be in surgery for a while to 
repair damaged nerves and sew up his lacerations. It would be some time 
before they could go visit him, so she was going to work until then. She 
hugged Greg before she left. His dad was already gone. As Greg went 
inside, he realized he’d left the house without his phone. What if someone 
had been trying to reach him? 

Someone? 

Let’s get real. He meant Fetch. Had Fetch sent him a text before Greg 
had spotted him? 

Yes. Fetch had texted, Greg discovered when he reached his room. Fetch 
had asked Greg how he was going to use the Magic Finger of Luck. 

This question put Greg into a fetal position on the bed, and it brought on 
a fresh wave of tears. Kimberly’s words played on a repeat track in his 
head: “He’s going to crash and burn before he figures it out.” 

Crash and burn. 

Crash and burn. 


Crash and burn. 

Greg sat and up and yelled, “Noooo!” He grabbed one of the books from 
his nightstand, and he fired it at the biggest plant in his collection. The plant 
went flying off the shelf, and dirt exploded into the air. Greg snatched up 
another book, threw it. Another book, threw it. He did this over and over 
until every one of his plants was on the floor, and dirt was everywhere. He 
breathed in the musky scent of the damp earth. 

He laid back down and tried to calm his breathing. This brought the tears 
back, but that was okay. He laid there and cried until he fell asleep. 


When he woke up, the sun was dropping in the west. It was midafternoon. 

As full consciousness returned, he remembered everything. 

“What a complete tool,” he berated himself. 

What had he been thinking? Did he really believe he could figure out 
what no one else—not the CIA or the universities or the experts had figured 
out? If it could be done, wouldn’t it have been done? 

Such an egotistical little twerp he’d been. He realized now how little he 
knew and that meant that whatever he thought he knew, whatever he 
thought had been the right thing to do, could have been exactly the opposite 
of that. Was he really guided to the restaurant? Or did he come up with the 
lame idea himself? And if he was guided, what guided him? He’d assumed 
he was doing something to get him what he wanted, but ... 

When his phone rang, he froze. 

Then he realized he was being stupid. Fetch didn’t call; he texted. Greg 
looked at his phone. It was Hadi. 

“Hey, dude, you okay? You weren’t at school.” 

Greg stared at his destroyed plants. He’d forgotten all about school. He’d 
forgotten all about life. 

“Yeah. Something happened to Dare.” 

“What? Is he okay?” 

“Dude. I’m sorry.” 

Greg could hear Hadi talking to someone else. 

“Cyril says he’s sorry, too,” Hadi said. 

“Thanks.” 


“Can we do anything?” 

“Not unless you can do magic.” 

“Sorry to disappoint, dude.” 

“Yeah.” 

“Hey, I’m not sure it’1 make you feel better, but Kimberly was looking 
for you just now.” 

Greg sat up and finger-combed his hair, catching himself and rolling his 
eyes. It wasn’t like she was in the room. “Really?” 

“Totally. She said you have a good paper idea and she’s ready to work on 
it.” 

Right. The paper. He slumped. He’d been so excited about that, and now 
he didn’t want to even think about the topic. 

Still, if it meant spending time with Kimberly ... 

He noticed Hadi was talking. 

“What? Sorry?” 

“T said, after listening to you moon over that girl forever, it would be 
nice to see you with her.” 

“Tt hasn’t been forever. Just since second grade.” 

Had it really been that long that he’d loved Kimberly? 

“Whatever.” 

“Yeah, it would be nice to see her.” 

“Well, then don’t miss your chance. Call her and get busy on that paper. 
Win her over, dude!” 

Greg grinned. Then he frowned. It felt wrong to feel hopeful after what 
had happened to Dare. 

“T gotta go,” he said. 

“Sure. Let us know if you want to hang out.” 

“Okay.” 

Greg put down the phone and went to take another hot shower. He stank 
of sweat and salty sea air. 

When he got out of the shower and got dressed, he picked up the phone 
to call Kimberly. That’s when he saw a text from Fetch ... sent five minutes 
ago. It said: 

Will retrieve. 

“Noooo,” Greg groaned. 


Greg shoved his phone in his pocket and tore out of his room. He 
galloped down the stairs and out to the dunes. 

Would Fetch even be there? 

When he reached the edge of his yard, he slowed. He was almost afraid 
to look. But he had to. 

He edged into the dunes, and he looked under the driftwood log. 

Greg’s legs gave out. He sank to his knees in the wet dune grass. 

Although a few small screws, metal pieces, wires, and a hinge were 
strewn out under the log, the vast majority of the scraps were gone. Gone. 

Greg looked around. The only footprints he saw in the sand were his 
own. But the sand did tell a story: around the driftwood, the wet sand was 
grooved with ragged drag marks. At least a dozen smears stretched out from 
under the log, and then they angled toward each other until they formed one 
messy drag mark that ended at a flattened clump of dune grass. 

Greg struggled to his feet and backed away from the dunes. Turning, he 
galloped into the house and up to his room. There, he sank to the floor and 
put his head in his hands. 

Snapshots of the last several weeks flashed through his head. The spider. 
The dead dog—the torn-up dead dog. Dare’s severed finger. 

All Greg had wanted was some luck. He didn’t want his uncle’s finger. 
But Fetch obviously took things literally. 

Greg had no doubt Fetch was active again. How? Greg didn’t know, 
didn’t need to know. He just did know that Fetch still worked. 

So if Fetch interpreted his request for luck as a need to rip off Dare’s 
finger, how exactly would he “retrieve,” and more importantly, what, or 
who, was Fetch going to retrieve? Especially now that Greg had beaten him 
up? 

“No!” Greg jumped up and stuffed his phone in his pocket. Shoving his 
feet into black running shoes, he flew out of his house. 

Kimberly lived about a mile away, farther south on the same street he 
lived on. It would be a straight shot. 

Grabbing his bike, Greg pedaled hard. Of course the wind was picking 
up again, and it was coming from the south. His lungs were screaming by 
the time he’d gotten halfway to her house. He ignored them and pushed on. 
He had to reach Kimberly before Fetch did. 

If it wasn’t too late already. 


When he reached Kimberly’s house, he leaped off his bike and prepared 
to rush up to the door. But he caught himself when he realized the house 
was dark. No cars were in the driveway; no one was home. 

Kimberly had mentioned her mom usually picked her up after school, 
and they often stopped to run errands on the way home. If Kimberly was 
still at school when Hadi called, Greg probably beat them here. 

Greg leaned over to catch his breath and picked up his bike. Carrying it 
to the bushes at the edge of Kimberly’s yard, he hunkered down to wait. 

He considered searching for Fetch, but he didn’t know when Kimberly 
would get home, and he could miss her if he was off looking for Fetch. He 
couldn’t risk it. 

He waited. 

While he waited, he tried to calm himself with yoga breathing. It didn’t 
work. 

He was so tense by the time the sun started going down at four thirty he 
felt like his limbs would break if he tried to unbend them from his crouched 
position. He figured he’d better try to move now before Kimberly got 
home. 

Just as he started to stretch out his legs and stand, he spotted headlights 
coming up the street. He bent low again. 

The car went past, but before he could straighten, another came after it. 
This was the one. 

A dark blue SUV pulled into the driveway. The passenger door opened, 
and Kimberly, wearing jeans and a cute green top that matched her eyes, 
bounced out of the car. She was chattering to her mother as she did. “I think 
if we put the oregano in, it would be good.” 

“Maybe with basil, too,” her mother said. 

Tall and slender, with a pretty face and short graying black hair, Mrs. 
Bergstrom was in her midsixties. When they were in second grade, 
Kimberly told him her mother was fifty-one years old when Kimberly was 
born. “I was a miracle baby,” Kimberly said. “I figure that means I should 
be nice to my parents.” She laughed her musical laugh. 

Greg knew Kimberly’s dad was even older than Kimberly’s mom. He 
was retired. He’d owned a couple of the hotels in Ocean Shores, and he’d 
sold them the year before. 

“He mostly plays golf now,” Greg overheard Kimberly tell a friend. 


Greg had met both of the Bergstroms. Although Mr. Bergstrom was a 
little grumpy, Mrs. Bergstrom was nice. 

But would she listen? 

Greg prepared to step out of the bushes and tell Kimberly she was in 
danger, but he realized how insane his story was going to sound. Maybe if 
he could talk to just her, she could convince her parents to listen. 

Before he decided what to do, a black sedan pulled in behind the SUV. It 
crunched over gravel strewn across the asphalt driveway, and Mr. 
Bergstrom got out. 

The wind picked up speed just when Mr. Bergstrom’s feet hit the ground. 
It blew off his red baseball cap, and Kimberly skipped after it. 

“Thanks, sweetie,” Mr. Bergstrom called. He smoothed down thinning 
white hair and hugged his daughter. 

The ocean wasn’t as loud now as it had been that morning when Greg 
was running in the dunes. Was it seriously just that morning that he had 
found out about Dare and tried to destroy Fetch? It felt like a year ago, at 
least. 

Even though it wasn’t as loud, the ocean’s insistent murmur drowned out 
what Kimberly and her parents were saying as they walked toward the 
house. Greg started to rise again, still not sure what to do. 

Just as he rose, Mr. Bergstrom’s hat blew off once more, and he strode 
after it. The hat landed right in front of the bush Greg hid in, and Mr. 
Bergstrom spotted him. 

“Hey, kid, what’re you doing in the bushes?” Mr. Bergstrom’s voice was 
strident and sharp. 

Greg squared his shoulders and stood up. He had to try to warn them. 

“Hi, Mr. Bergstrom,” he said. 

“Who’re you? No, wait. I’ve seen you.” 

“Greg, what are you doing here?” Kimberly called out from her front 
walk. She came toward Greg and her dad. Mrs. Bergstrom followed. 

“Um, Kimberly, I know this is going to sound crazy.” 

“What’s going to sound crazy? What’s the meaning of this?” Mr. 
Bergstrom snapped. 

Greg took a deep breath and dove into his explanation. “Kimberly, 
you’re in danger. Like, serious danger. I think, well, I think, someone, er ... 
something is going to try to kill you.” 


“What?” Mr. and Mrs. Bergstrom erupted in unison. Mr. Bergstrom’s 
tone was rough and outraged. Mrs. Bergstrom’s tone was a high-pitch 
shriek of fear. 

Kimberly said nothing, but her eyes had widened. 

“Kimberly, you know what we were talking about, the REGs, the plants, 
the cells, the shared consciousness, the guidance?” 

She nodded. 

“T have no idea how to explain this, but part of the guidance I got was 
that I had to know what was inside that abandoned pizzeria. So I got Cyril 
and Hadi to break in there with me ...” 

“You what?” Mr. Bergstrom sputtered. 

Greg ignored him. “And we found this animatronic dog that’s designed 
to sync up with your cell phone.” 

Mr. Bergstrom tried to interrupt again, but Greg talked louder and faster. 
“IT was curious, so I poked around at it, and I couldn’t get it to work. Or at 
least I thought I couldn’t get it to work. But apparently I did, because it’s 
been texting me and doing things for me. At first it did helpful things, but 
then it started doing things I didn’t want it to do. It killed a dog that 
bothered me ...” 

Kimberly, a dog lover, Greg knew, sucked in her breath. 

He shrugged at her. “Yeah, I know. It was awful. I mean, this was a 
horrible dog, but still, it was a dog, and the way it was killed was ... 
Anyway, then I was wanting some luck, and my uncle had this Magic 
Finger of Luck, and I wished I had that, too, and then I found his ...” 

“Young man,” Mr. Bergstrom shouted. 

Greg ignored him and talked even louder. “I found his finger. And so this 
afternoon, I said, well, I said I wanted to be with you, and now I’m afraid 
Fetch is going to—” 

“Young man!” Mr. Bergstrom yelled. 

Greg stopped because, well, what else could he say? 

That’s when he noticed Mr. Bergstrom put a cell phone to his ear, “Yes, 
could you please send an officer to my home? Some crazy teenager is 
stalking my daughter. I want him arrested.” 

Greg looked at Kimberly. She mouthed, “Sorry.” 

He shook his head. 

He’d failed again. 

When the police officer questioned Greg about breaking into the restaurant, 
Greg kept telling himself Kimberly would be okay. She was fine now, and if 
Fetch was following what was going on through Greg’s cell phone, he’d 
surely know Greg wanted Kimberly to be left alone. 

“T’d forgotten all about that old pizzeria,” the middle-aged cop said when 
Mr. Bergstrom reported Greg’s break-in. “Is it still there?” 

Is it still there? Greg thought. Was the place like Brigadoon or 
something? 

When the police officer put Greg in his SUV and took him to the police 
station, Greg kept telling himself Kimberly would be okay. Her parents 
would be on guard. Fetch wouldn’t be able to “retrieve” her. 

But no matter how often he told himself everything would be fine, he 
dreaded going back to his house. It took two hours for the police to process 
him and question him. It took another two hours for the police to locate his 
parents and another hour and a half for them to get to the station because 
they were both in Olympia. What if Fetch had gotten to Kimberly in that 
time? 

His parents finally showed up at the station, his mother red-eyed and his 
dad pissed off about, well, everything. The police had decided to release 
Greg into his parents’ care. He’d be free, which also meant he could keep 
an eye on Kimberly. As soon as his parents went to bed, he’d sneak out and 
go watch over her. He’d do that for as long as it took him to find Fetch and 
figure out a way to deactivate him. 

Greg almost couldn’t bear to get out of his dad’s pickup when his dad 
pulled it into the garage. Dragging his feet, Greg reluctantly opened the car 
door and stepped onto the concrete. He cautiously approached the stairway 
leading up to the front door. Then he steeled himself and looked around. 

Everything seemed normal. Kimberly’s body wasn’t under the house or 
on the front mat. 

He nearly fainted in relief. 

“What the hell’s wrong with you?” Greg’s dad asked when Greg sagged 
against the stair railing. 

“Nothing.” 


When Greg and his parents entered their house, Greg’s dad grabbed 
Greg’s arm. Greg gritted his teeth. 

“I’d say I was disappointed in you,” his dad said, “but I haven’t expected 
anything good from you in years.” 

Greg’s mom sighed. “Steven.” 

“Hillary.” 

Greg ignored them both and went up the stairs to his room. 

Peeling off his clothes as soon as he was in the darkened space, he went 
to take yet another shower. He stank ... again. Not only did the hard bike 
ride and the panic to save Kimberly make him sweat buckets, he’d sat in 
what smelled like dried urine in the cop’s SUV. 

He thought the hot shower might bring him back to life. He had to get 
the energy to go to Kimberly’s house again. His bike was still in the back of 
his dad’s pickup. The policeman had stuck it in his SUV when he took Greg 
in, and he’d given it back when he and his parents left the station. 

But when Greg got out of the shower, he was wiped out. He looked at 
the time on his phone. He also checked for texts. Nothing. That was good. 
Right? 

Maybe he could take a nap before heading to Kimberly’s to be sure she 
was Okay. Heck, maybe he’d been wrong about the whole thing. Maybe 
Fetch was retrieving him a snack or information he hadn’t even realized 
he’d requested. Maybe there really was nothing to worry about. 

Greg pulled on a yellow T-shirt and a pair of gray flannel sleep pants. 
Then he threw open the bathroom door. 

Barely containing a scream, Greg stumbled away from the door and fell 
to the tiled floor, his mind struggling to accept what he was looking at. 

There was something wrapped in a sheet, laying across the doorway. As 
he stared, the once beige sheet was turning a deep, dark red, and it glistened 
wet in the room’s muted light. 

Who was under the sheet? What was under the sheet? Greg couldn’t get 
himself to move so he could find out. 

Greg didn’t need to look any further. He knew everything he needed to 
know. 

The phone on Greg’s bathroom counter vibrated. He couldn’t help 
himself; he picked it up and looked at it. 

Fetch had texted: 


CU. 


Sa. ra 

Aad | 

rs Y 
by,ad,” Alec had always argued, was such a subjective word. With 
its very definition, it was determined by someone else’s baseline. 
I word that served one purpose: to judge. And Alec had been judged 
his entire life. 

His first memory was a decidedly terrible one. He was in preschool and 
bigger than the other kids. Recognizing this advantage at an early age, he 
found he could move to the front of any line with surprising ease. The other 
kids were glad to play the games he dictated, and he never had to look for a 
seat at the lunch table. It was only when his preschool teacher pulled him to 
the side on that first memorable day that Alec was made to understand that 
he was “bad.” 

“You’re a bully,” the teacher had said to him, a word he assumed was 
positive and smiled when she offered it. Instead of patting him on the 
shoulder like his mom would do when he ate his whole meal, the teacher 
shrank away from him in horror. In fact, it was that precise expression on 
his preschool teacher’s face that Alec remembered most of all. More than 
the way the blue plastic chairs in the classroom would stick to the backs of 
his legs in summertime. More than the way a fresh box of unused crayons 
smelled under his nose. More than the way the canned peaches they served 
as snacks slid around on his tongue amid the sticky syrup and metallic 
aftertaste. 

Alec didn’t even remember his preschool teacher’s name. He simply 
remembered her look of horror when he didn’t understand that he was 
“bad.” 

As he grew older, Alec came to realize that “bad” was defined by 
comparison. And that was mostly a workable construct for Alec. 

Until Hazel came along. 

Hazel, who was named after a beloved grandmother Alec had never met. 
Hazel, whose fine blonde ringlets were twisted up in stiff bows. Hazel, who 
slept through the entire night with nary a fuss. 

Alec was named after no one. It was a compromise between the 
“Alexander” his mom had wanted and the “Eric” his dad had lobbied for. 

Alec’s curls were unruly, tamed with water from the tap and a wooden- 
backed brush. Alec’s nights were cleaved by nightmares and bouts of loud 
wakefulness. 

For the first five years of his life, Alec’s behavior was more or less in 
constant search of the walls separating good from bad. After Hazel was 
born, Alec jumped the wall and landed in uncharted lands. He was not as 
easily tracked in this new space. He was “bad” sometimes, yes, but more 
often than not, he was boundless. He went undiscovered. It was in that 
space that “good” and “bad” didn’t exist. If there was no one guiding him to 
the boundaries—if there was no one watching—behavior, if anything, was 
an afterthought. 

“Maybe don’t single him out as often, Meg,” Alec’s aunt Gigi would say. 
“Kids respond so much better to positive reinforcement.” 

Aunt Gigi had also suggested to Alec’s mom in that same conversation 
that she switch to organic milk; the added hormones in regular dairy 
increased aggression in kids, according to some studies. Aunt Gigi had no 
children and no desire for any. Alec’s mom was often in the mood for 
advice, and her older sister was always happy to give it. 

“Gigi, it’s not the milk,” Alec’s mom had argued. “They drink the same 
milk. And he’s not aggressive. He’s just ... I don’t know ... he’s in his own 
world. It’s like the rules don’t apply to him.” 

“Well, then you know he’ll be a leader when he’s older. That’s great!” 
Aunt Gigi had posited. 

“Yeah,” Alec’s mom had said. “Maybe. I don’t know. He doesn’t seem to 
like other people much.” 

“He’s ten, Meg. They hate everyone.” 

“Not everyone,” his mom had argued. “Look at Gavin.” 

“Who?” 

“Becca’s son.” 

“That kid who’s always smiling at everyone?” 

“That isn’t a bad thing,” his mom had said. 

“No, it’s a creepy thing,” Aunt Gigi had said. “Trust me, you don’t want 
more little Gavins running around the world. That’s the kind of kid you find 
standing over your bed one night holding a butcher knife. No, thanks.” 

It was times like those that Alec wondered if he’d been born to the 
wrong sister, and Aunt Gigi was really his mom. But his turned-up nose and 


blond hair like hay were dead ringers for his mom, no question. 

It was also times like these that Alec wished he wasn’t so good at 
eavesdropping. His parents had both warned him about it many times, but 
inevitably, he’d find himself perched at the top of the staircase, listening to 
the conversations no one really tried that hard to hide. It was almost like 
they wanted him to hear. 

Eavesdropping was how he’d found out about The Plan. 

Alec probably should have seen it coming; it was April after all. The 
magical miracle month, otherwise known as the month their precious Hazel 
was born. Alec got a day, the eighteenth day of August to be precise. That 
was his special day when his parents pretended he wasn’t a problem. But 
Hazel? Hazel got a full thirty days of adoration. 

“Someone’s got a special day coming up in two weeks,” his dad would 
Say. 

“Are you excited for your party?” his mom would ask. 

And Hazel’s eyes would glitter, and she’d act like it was all too much 
fuss, and his parents would eat it up. She’d earned it, they would say. She 
should enjoy it. Then they’d look at Alec and wait for him to agree, which 
he rarely did. Why bother? It’s not like it would change a thing; she’d still 
get the party. Maybe it would have been decent of him to be nice to Hazel 
once in a while, but Alec just couldn’t see giving his parents the 
satisfaction. 

So when he overheard his parents discussing The Plan, he was frankly 
surprised it had taken them this long to come up with it. They must have 
been behind on their reading. 

“Tt’s in Chapter Five. Have you gotten to Chapter Five yet?” Alec’s mom 
asked his dad across the kitchen table where they stirred their decaf coffee 
that night. 

“1 thought Chapter Five talked about letting the child choose his own 
road,” his dad said. That tone of exasperation in his voice was becoming 
more of a regular thing. 

“No no no, that’s from The Glowing Child,” corrected his mom. “I’m 
talking about The Plan Planner. This doctor says The Glowing Child’s 
theories are all wrong!” 

Alec remembered The Glowing Child method well. Apparently, that 
author believed every child was simply a blob of clay waiting to be self- 


molded, which involved some completely bonkers exercises like letting 
Alec rename himself. So he decided on Captain Thunder Pants and spent 
the entire week farting himself around the house and claiming he couldn’t 
help it—it was his namesake. 

That wasn’t as ridiculous as the time they read that they needed to plant 
a garden with him so he could nurture something, or the time they were told 
to go camping as a family to get back to their “familial core.” The garden 
experiment ended when Alec buried his mom’s wedding ring in the soil to 
see if it would grow more diamonds. The camping trip devolved into a sort 
of Lord of the Flies situation after Hazel got a mosquito stuck up her nose, 
and Alec may or may not have convinced her that it would lay eggs in her 
nasal passage. The trip really didn’t have a chance after that. 

“Honestly, Meg, the more we read, the more I’m convinced that none of 
these so-called doctors know what the heck they’re talking about,” his dad 
said, but Alec’s mom was not one to be deterred. 

“Well, Ian, what’s the alternative? Do we give up?” 

This wasn’t the first time Alec had heard a conversation like this one. It 
seemed to happen in the spaces between every other book that his parents 
would read to try to understand why their son was just so different than 
them. 

It wasn’t the first time Alec had heard this sort of conversation, and yet, 
it would form the same hard stone in his stomach every single time. 
Because no matter how many books they read or gardens they made him 
plant or organic milk they poured down his throat, the one thing they never 
tried was talking to him. 

“Of course we don’t give up,” his dad said to his mom, whipping his 
little teaspoon around the sides of his coffee mug until Alec imagined it 
forming a little decaf whirlpool against the ceramic. 

“Just ask me,” Alec whispered, and for just a second—for once in all of 
his fifteen years—his parents were both silent, and he thought maybe they’d 
hear him. “Just ask me what’s the matter.” 

If they’d asked, he might have said, “I’m not like you, and I’m not like 
Hazel, and that should be okay.” 

But his parents simply went on talking. 

“You just need to skip ahead to Chapter Five,” his mom said. 


“Can’t we just skip ahead to the part where you tell me what we’re 
supposed to be doing?” his dad said. 

“Just read the chapter, Ian. The party’s next weekend, and I really think 
we need to lay some groundwork before Saturday.” 

His dad sighed so heavily, Alec could hear it from the stairs, which is 
how he knew that his dad would once again read a useless book about some 
useless method for helping them to understand their enigma of a child. 

It was the same every time. 

And because his parents always stashed their collection of parenting 
books in some supersecret location Alec had never been able to discover, 
he’d be starting from a disadvantage like always, watching The Plan and 
Chapter Five’s contents unfold over the course of the next week. 

Upstairs, in the Jack-and-Jill bathroom that separated Alec’s room from 
Hazel’s, he stared in the mirror and tried to see himself the way his parents 
did. They saw the same blond hair, the same light green eyes, the same jaw 
set in rigid determination to never hang open in amazement, to never break 
into an unexpected smile. Alec was nothing if not deliberate. 

It was only Hazel who occasionally took him by surprise. 

“Are you okay?” she asked from her doorway, and he fixed his face in 
annoyance, but he was a little too late in doing so, and he was afraid she’d 
seen him startled. 

“Why wouldn’t I be?” he asked, leveling her with the same type of 
question he always asked. He had mastered the art of deflection. 

Hazel shrugged and grabbed her toothbrush, playing at being nonchalant, 
too, but she wasn’t nearly as good at it as he was. 

“Mom and Dad are acting weird again,” she said, shorthand for the 
explanation. She meant “Mom and Dad are picking on you again.” But Alec 
wasn’t so easily fooled. His sister was the worst of them. She conned 
everyone else with her questions that pretended to be innocent, and her 
smile that might’ve made anyone else think she meant it. 

“Don’t worry,” he said. “It won’t affect your party.” 

He’d meant for it to be a slight on her, but she misunderstood and 
thought he actually cared. 

“T don’t really care that much about the party, you know,” she said, 
looking at his reflection in the mirror instead of looking directly at him. 
That’s how he knew she was lying. 


She started to brush her teeth, and Alec took a moment to study her as 
she looked down into the sink to spit. 

It’s almost like she was able to will every part of herself to be perfect. 
Her hair never frizzed. Her nose never ran. Her freckles were evenly 
spaced, as though they’d been painted on by a steady hand. Even her teeth 
were straight. She’d probably never need braces. Alec had started to believe 
he’d never get his braces off. 

“Don’t be dumb,” he finally said. “Of course you care about your stupid 
party.” 

Her face flushed a perfectly even shade of pink. “I bet not that many 
people will even come,” she said. 

Alec couldn’t even muster a response to such a ridiculous plea for fake 
sympathy. He just snorted. 

“Yeah, okay,” he said and left her to finish swishing the toothpaste from 
her mouth. The day of getting his own bathroom in his own house with his 
own rules and no one to wonder why he was so different than them ... that 
day couldn’t come soon enough. 

Stars had begun to dot the sky when Alec’s trance was broken by the 
creak of the bathroom door on Hazel’s side. He waited for the interruption 
to pass, but the longer he waited, the more it became clear that Hazel wasn’t 
in there to go to the bathroom. After another few seconds, the door to his 
room from the bathroom opened a crack, and in spilled the blonde curls of 
his sister as she broke a cardinal rule. 

“Get out,” he said, and she snatched her head back into the bathroom, 
startled. But that didn’t last. 

Instead, she opened the door a little wider, and to Alec’s utter disbelief, 
she dared to take a step inside his room. 

He watched her look around for a second, as though she’d entered a 
strange new world, and in a way, she had. If he’d ever suspected that she 
snuck in here when he wasn’t around, that question was answered by the 
way she stared around her now. She was a rule follower, even when no one 
was looking. 

“You have a death wish,” he said, and he could hear her swallow. 

Still, she took another step toward him. 

He had a couple of options. The usual verbal intimidation wasn’t 
working. He could use brute force. Pain was an excellent motivator. He 


could play at charging her: whip the covers off of himself and lunge out of 
the bed just far enough to chase her off. 

Or he could exercise psychological trickery. He could lie there, perfectly 
still, saying not even a single word more. He could watch her as closely as 
he was watching her now, wait for her to get close, to achieve whatever 
insane goal she must have for coming in here and defying all logic, and 
watch her courage falter the deeper she ventured into his room. 

Maybe it was the thrill of exerting that level of control over the situation, 
or maybe he was curious to see what she’d do. Either way, he opted for the 
third option. 

And he waited. 

Strangely, for as closely as he studied her, Hazel studied him just as 
closely back. She took another step toward his bed, then another, and 
though he could tell she was trembling, could see that from the second she 
popped her head in, she continued to walk forward. It wasn’t until she was 
just a couple of steps from his bed that he noticed she was holding 
something. 

She took the last two steps fast, as though her courage was expiring, and 
set the thing at the foot of Alec’s bed. Then she took two steps backward, 
spinning on her heel, and sprinted back into the bathroom, pulling the door 
to his bedroom closed behind her. 

Alec stared at the book at the foot of his bed for a long time before he 
finally picked it up. 

It was green with bold white lettering, the title precisely centered and 
slightly raised from the jacket. It was flagged with a bright pink sticky note 
right at the start of Chapter Five. And when he opened it, written in the fine 
pencil script of his mother’s careful hand, were notes for his dad and her to 
follow in the days leading up to Golden Hazel’s party. 

Defying their parents—defying all logic and rules and self-interest— 
Hazel had stolen The Plan Planner from their parents’ secret library while 
they slept. 

And she had shared it with him. 

Alec’s heart raced as he read through the carefully prescribed steps of 
Chapter Five, the method that promised to turn their bad child good and 
achieve the familial harmony his parents had read over and over was 
achievable. 


Then, when he was done thumbing through the pages his father hadn’t 
yet bothered to read but had agreed to try out on their problematic first- 
born, Alec stared at the closed bathroom door his sister had gathered the 
courage to open, knowing the wrath she’d surely incur. He wondered for the 
rest of the night about why she had done it. What sort of game was she 
playing at? What kind of sorcery was she practicing, trying to lull him into 
a false sense of camaraderie? 

Then he allowed his memory to fall backward. He retraced the times he 
had confused her in the past, the moments he’d simply assumed she was 
attempting to throw him off of his game. There was the time she baked him 
cookies in her toy oven after his parents had ignored his pleas for sweets at 
the grocery store. There was that one moment during the doomed camping 
trip when she’d laughed at an unintentional joke he’d made, even as she 
clawed desperately at her nose for the rogue mosquito. There was that one 
Mother’s Day when she’d added his name to the card because he’d 
forgotten. 

Alec stared out his window for the rest of the night, until the dotted stars 
gave way to the blue dawn before sunrise. It was too tempting to believe 
that his sister had brought him the book because an alliance had suddenly 
seemed like a good idea. Ten years of watching the uncanny spells she 
could cast on his parents and the rest of the world had taught him she 
wasn’t to be so easily trusted. 

No, he thought as night crept into day. This is just another trick. 

She’d been able to fool everyone else but him up to this point. A phony 
peace offering wasn’t about to trick him into thinking she was suddenly on 
his side. Still, it unsettled him a little that he didn’t know what exactly she 
was up to. There was really only one way to solve that mystery. 

“T’ll play along,” he whispered to himself. “She’ll show her cards 
eventually.” 

“You’re making it too complicated,” Hazel said. It seemed she was taking 
to this new alliance with surprising comfort. 

They were sitting by the pool in the backyard, their feet dangling in the 
chlorinated water as the sun beat against their backs. Alec didn’t need a 


mirror to know his neck was starting to glow pink. 

“What’re you talking about? It’s the perfect plan,” he said. 

Alec was in such a habit of coldly dismissing his sister, it was 
exceptionally difficult to pretend to take her seriously. But if he was going 
to discover whatever trap it was she was trying to lure him into, he had to 
be convincing. 

Strangely, though, in pretending to take her advice, he was starting to see 
her differently. It was weird the way this person he was so closely related to 
was suddenly becoming whole in front of him, like he’d been living with a 
hologram this whole time. 

She was a completely formed con artist. 

“So let me get this straight,” she said, rolling her eyes skyward. “Your 
big plan to get Mom and Dad to stop thinking you’re a total sociopath is to 
act like a total sociopath?” 

After reading Chapter Five the night before, Alec learned that The Plan 
was a grossly simplistic take on the teenaged brain. If parents wanted a 
well-behaved, predictable child, they simply needed to treat them as the 
opposite of that. It was the worst in hokey reverse psychology, and nothing 
irked Alec more than having his intelligence insulted. 

So his Counterplan was simple; he’d just act worse—way, way worse. 
He was pretending, of course. He knew his Counterplan was a terrible one. 
But he needed Hazel to be the one to come up with the idea, not him. It was 
the only way to make her believe he was falling for her gesture of sibling 
love. 

Once her guard was down, he’d be able to figure out what she was 
actually up to. 

“How am I the sociopath in this scenario?” he asked, trying hard not to 
actually feel offended. It’s just an act, he reminded himself. It’s just an act. 
“They think the best way to make me good is to treat me like I’m bad!” 
Alec added in mock outrage. “If you ask me, that’s pretty sociopathic.” 

Now he was fake-arguing that fake acting bad was the best way to 
counteract his parents’ fake-anger at his real bad behavior. It was all getting 
very meta. Alec could feel a headache forming behind his eyes. 

“Look,” said Hazel, suddenly sounding older than her almost ten years. 
“Don’t take this the wrong way, but you’ve sort of been losing your touch.” 


“My touch?” Alec said, putting his hand on the hottest part of his neck to 
try and shield it. Only yesterday, Hazel would have been terrified to be this 
blunt with him. Maybe he really was losing his knack for intimidation. 

“You used to be pretty good at hiding it,” she said, and she looked hard 
at him, so he knew she was waiting for him to catch on. 

When he didn’t answer, she sighed and said, “You used to get away with 
a lot more.” 

“How’s that my fault?” he said, not really liking the way he sounded 
pouty. “If anything, it’s your fault!” 

She blinked at him slowly. 

“They only started to think I was the bad one when they figured out you 
were the good one.” 

Hazel looked back down at the water, and this time, he thought maybe he 
saw something of the old Hazel, the one who seemed to tiptoe around him 
with an apology on her lips, like it was a lost cause thinking they’d ever be 
friends. 

To Alec’s great amazement, he felt a twinge of remorse for that, a feeling 
he quickly buried. 

“Okay, what’s your Counterplan?” he asked. 

Her solution was too simple. 

“Be good,” she said. 

Alec laughed. What else could he do? 

“That’s your master class in playing our parents? Reverse-reverse 
psychology?” 

She shrugged. “If you’re a little bit better, and I’m a little bit worse, 
maybe it’ll neutralize the attention enough for them to leave us alone for a 
change.” 

Alec let his jaw do that thing where it dropped. He let his body 
experience the full shock he had restrained for so long, and he did it in front 
of the least likely person: Golden Hazel. The child who did what she was 
told when she was told to do it. The straight As and the coordinated piano 
fingers, the dish clearer and the classroom helper. The easy parent/teacher 
conference. The perfect child. 

Maybe she didn’t want to be perfect anymore. 

How had it never occurred to him that his lot in the family was just as 
burdensome as hers? Why had the tiny sparkle in her eye never caught his 


attention, the one that said, “Let’s trade places for today”? When had she 
stopped being Golden Hazel and simply started being Hazel: a kid? 

All the more reason not to trust her, he thought, his resolve hardening. 
She was tired of pretending to be the good one. She was ready to advance to 
full bad-kid status. Which meant she was definitely up to something. 

“Do you think you can do it?” he asked, not meaning it as a challenge 
but as an actual question. “Be bad?” 

“Can you be good?” she asked, and from her, it definitely was a 
challenge. 

They agreed to test her theory that night as a sort of trial run. Their 
parents were obviously committed to their own experiment prescribed by 
The Plan Planner. They’d been on Alec’s case all day: They’d scolded him 
for failing to pull his clothes from the clothesline. They’d admonished him 
for playing video games before completing his homework, even though it 
was spring break. They’d even lectured him on the importance of flossing, a 
strange battle to pick after a spotless checkup during his most recent dental 
cleaning. 

By the time dinner rolled around, Alec’s face hurt from smiling. His 
neck was sore from nodding. His blood had boiled so many times that day, 
he was surprised he hadn’t cooked from the inside out. He’d swallowed 
every scolding, never caving to the temptation of sassing his parents. 

And true to her word, at each confrontation throughout the day, Hazel 
had been there to take a portion of the burden away from Alec. She’d 
chosen that morning to show their mom the less-than-stellar grade on her 
spelling test from the previous week. She’d “accidentally” dropped her 
dad’s shirts in the mud when she pulled them from the clothesline. And in 
response to the Great Flossing Debate of Monday afternoon, she’d marked 
a first for herself: Hazel mouthed off. 

“How many cavities did you have at your last checkup?” she muttered 
within earshot of their mother. 

“Young lady, what’s gotten into you today?” their mom said. 

And as Alec and Hazel rounded the corner to retreat to their separate 
bedrooms after dinner time, they’d tapped fingertips and hid their smiles. 

But as soon as Alec closed his own bedroom door, he reviewed every 
moment from the day to analyze his sister’s actions: the way she’d jump in 
too readily to deflect the scolding meant for him, the way she’d been so 


ready with a smart comeback to their mom, the time she winked 
conspiratorially at him at the dinner table. It was all just a little too perfect, 
this little show she was putting on for him. 

You’re not clever enough to play this game, he thought that night before 
he went to bed. You’re in way over your head, Sis. 

He had five years on her of playing the role of the bad seed. If she 
thought she was going to usurp that title, she was in for a rude awakening. 


The next day was more or less a repeat of the previous one. 

When their parents decried Alec’s lack of manners at the breakfast table, 
Hazel burped. When Alec’s dad accused him of scratching the side of the 
car with his bike, Hazel unapologetically took the blame. When Alec’s 
mom wondered aloud when the last time was that Alec had ingested a 
vegetable, Hazel’s quick response was to ask when the last time was that 
their parents had cooked an edible one. 

That night, as Hazel joined Alec on his perch at the top of the stairs, they 
listened to their parents puzzle through the past two days. 

“Ts it just me, or does Hazel seem to be going through a ... phase?” their 
mom whispered to their dad, teaspoons clinking against the sides of their 
coffee mugs. 

“T thought it was just my imagination at first,” their dad agreed. 

Their parents’ awe was unmistakable. 

“Did you hear what she said to me this afternoon?” their mom asked. 
“She actually said she thought I was starting to look ‘haggard’! Haggard, 
Ian! Do I look haggard?” 

“No, but you sound haggard,” Alec muttered. 

Hazel had to stifle her laugh, but Alec was too irritated to find the 
humor. His parents were infuriating. Was it really so unbelievable that 
Hazel could be even nastier than predictably rotten Alec? 

“Well, could anyone blame you for being haggard?” their father said. 

“Oooh, wrong answer,” Hazel whispered, and this time, Alec did find the 
humor, and his laugh caught him off guard. 

“So then I do look haggard?” their mom said, and Alec could hear a 
teaspoon clinking faster and faster against the ceramic. One of them was 


compulsively stirring. 

“Of course not, Meg. Can we try to focus on the kids?” he said, and their 
mom let out a single, uncharitable “Ha!” 

“Oh, now look who’s ready to be the adult,” said their mom, and Alec 
and Hazel both leaned back on their step, grimacing. 

“That’s not going to go over well,” said Alec. 

“Really, Meg?” 

“T just think that—” 

“Oh, I know what you think. You’ve made that pretty clear.” 

“Good grief, Ian, grow up.” 

But when Alec looked over at Hazel, she was simply smiling. As though 
the whole thing were going exactly according to plan. Of course, from her 
perspective, it was. 

Then she turned her smile to him. If Alec hadn’t been able to see right 
through her, he might have been tempted to believe it was genuine. If he 
were the type to fall for such an obvious manipulation, he might have even 
felt a hint of warmth toward her, a sister simply in search of an actual 
relationship with her brother. 

It was kind of cute, he thought, how she believed she could outsmart 
him. 

“Okay, okay,” their dad said, and Alec heard him pull in a deep breath. 
“We can’t turn on each other.” 

Their mother sighed. “You’re right. Let’s just go to bed. It’s been a long 
day. Oh, and I can’t find the book, FYI.” 

“Forget it,” their dad said. “We’Il look for it in the morning.” 

Two sets of chair legs scraped against the kitchen tiles, and Alec and 
Hazel jumped to their feet and slipped into their rooms just as the light on 
the stairs switched on, announcing their parents’ approach. 

Lying in bed, Alec thought through all the variations in his own plan, the 
Counter to the Counterplan, as it were. 

Tomorrow was party-planning day. He’d heard his mom remind his dad 
about it a thousand times, not that it mattered since he’d be at work and she 
would be dragging Alec and Hazel along to meet Aunt Gigi at the pizzeria 
instead. 

It was there that Alec would really ramp up his reconnaissance. If he was 
going to discover what Hazel was actually up to, he would discover it in the 


place where all of these plans and counterplans were to culminate. He could 
think of no other reason for why Hazel was so determined to sabotage her 
own birthday party by allowing Alec to be ... well, himself. It had 
something to do with her birthday on Saturday. Whatever she was planning, 
it would all go down then. 

Alec’s only real option was to sit back and let Hazel show her cards. It 
was a matter of time before it happened, and though she’d proven herself 
more cunning than he’d originally given her credit for, she was no evil 
genius. 

That title was reserved for Alec. 

Sometime after Alec heard his parents’ bedroom door shut for the night, 
the door from the bathroom he shared with Hazel opened, and she poked 
her head inside. 

“Today was fun,” she said, and Alec made a quick switch to his 
“conspiring brother” act. 

“Yeah,” he said. “Nice job with the cooking dig,” he said. 

“Thanks.” 

Hazel laughed shyly. 

Oh please, Alec thought, but he managed to keep from rolling his eyes. 

“Hey, you don’t think we’re gonna, like, break them or anything, do 
you?” Hazel said. 

“Nah,” he said. “They can handle it. Trust me, I’ve put them through a 
lot worse.” 

Hazel nodded, then gave him one more shy smile before shutting the 
door and padding across the bathroom back to her own room. 

It was a few minutes before Alec noticed that he was smiling, too. Not 
smiling because he was recounting all the ways he’d beaten his sister at her 
own game. Not smiling because he’d exposed her for the fraud she is for 
their parents and friends and everyone else in the world to see. Not yet, 
anyway. 

He was smiling because he was enjoying her company. 

Get a grip, Alec, he scolded himself. 

Then he repeated to himself over and over that she wasn’t as good as she 
pretended to be, that she was only using him as a means to an end. He 
reminded himself that this alliance was false and temporary, that once he’d 
revealed her as a fraud, they’d go back to their separate ends of the 


bathroom, and Alec could proceed unfettered in doing whatever it was he 
wanted to do, only this time without the constant comparison to Golden 
Hazel. 

Then he wiped that pathetic smile from his face and fell asleep with 
vengeance on his mind. 

“Gigi, what do you think? Should we kick in for the extra Fazbear 
Funwiches?” 

Alec and Hazel’s mom was a wreck on Wednesday. She’d overslept her 
alarm and had to shove Alec and Hazel into the car without taking a shower 
or even brushing her teeth. Her hair was jammed into submission under an 
old baseball cap, and the dark circles under her eyes made her look almost 
skeletal under the shadow of the hat brim. 

Hazel hadn’t made it much better by asking her—in her most concerned 
voice—if she was coming down with something because she looked 
absolutely sickly. And Alec hadn’t made it any better by being ... nice. 

“You look fine, Mom,” he’d said, which threw their mom for such a 
loop, she could only blink at them both before snapping at them to buckle 
up and running two stop signs in order to meet Aunt Gigi on time at Freddy 
Fazbear’s. 

Now she was standing in the party room with a thoroughly unenthused 
Party Prepper who was waiting impatiently on answers about Saturday. 

“What on earth is a Funwich?” Aunt Gigi asked, leaning her hand on a 
table and immediately lifting it after detecting something sticky. 

“It’sa...um... it’sa...” their mom tried, but she was distracted by the 
sight of Alec and Hazel seeming to play together by the Skee-Ball 
machines. 

“You are truly terrible at this game,” Alec said. 

“T am not!” said Hazel, but after her third gutter ball in a row, Alec just 
laughed. 

“Okay, it’s not my best event,” she said. “I shine more in the Pinball 
category.” 

“Can you even see over the controllers?” he asked, rubbing the top of her 
head roughly. 


Hazel smiled, and so did Alec, but for a different reason. He felt 
refreshed after a good night’s sleep, renewed in his mission to bring his 
sister down. 

“Tt’s a delicious crescent roll stuffed with your choice of fried macaroni, 
tater tots, or chocolate marshmallow,” the Party Prepper deadpanned to 
Aunt Gigi. 

“That sounds utterly repulsive,” Aunt Gigi said. 

The Party Prepper didn’t argue. 

“Yeah, but it’s only twenty dollars more, and honestly, I’m just not sure 
if the Super Surprise Party Package comes with enough food,” their mom 
fretted, finally taking her gaze from the kids and returning to the task at 
hand. 

“So that’s a yes on the Fazbear Funwich platter with extra dipping 
sauces?” said the Party Prepper, by now having had just about enough of 
this entire interaction. 

“Yes. Let’s do it,” said their mom, clearly relieved at having made the 
big decision. “I have these coupons from the paper for Foxy’s Pirate 
Palooza special? Can I use those?” 

While their mom and Aunt Gigi ironed out the last of the details, Alec 
and Hazel wandered the empty pizzeria out of earshot of their mom and 
aunt. 

“So what’s the big deal with this place anyway?” Alec said, worried he 
was giving himself away. 

The deep, dark truth was that he’d always wanted his own birthday party 
at Freddy Fazbear’s, but he’d never made enough friends to justify the 
expense of a big party. Instead, his parents had always thrown together a 
haphazard celebration at home and called it a “pool party,” but it was hard 
to ignore the reality that the only other kids there were all Hazel’s friends 
she’d been allowed to invite in order to fill out the crowd. 

Hazel shrugged, feigning nonchalance. “I dunno.” 

“Liar,” he said. “You’ve had your birthday here for the last four years in 
a row.” 

It was the perfect double-psych-out. He’d goad her into telling him what 
was so important about her stupid party this year, and she’d just think he 
was trying to have a brotherly conversation with her. 


“Why don’t you tell me?” she challenged, catching Alec midstare. He 
hadn’t realized what he was looking at until Hazel did, then he quickly 
looked away. 

“Nice try,” she said, tilting her head toward the Yarg Foxy onstage. 

There he was in all his Pirate-y, foxy greatness—this eye-patched, peg- 
legged, hook-wielding orange fox. In this restaurant, he was positioned as a 
human-size plush figure propped by the stage, presumably there for taking 
pictures with. But he played a different role in every Freddy Fazbear’s, 
sometimes greeting visitors at the door, sometimes playing in the band 
onstage with the others. Wherever he was, though, Alec saw him. He was 
without a doubt Alec’s favorite character. It’s possible—possible—that he 
used to stick his foot in a plastic flower pot and roll a cardboard tube around 
his hand and pretend to be Yarg Foxy. 

Clearly, it was also possible that Hazel had at some point silently 
witnessed said roleplay. 

“Whatever,” he said. “Stupid kid stuff. And besides, we’re talking about 
you, not me.” 

They were standing in the aisle between the arcade and the stage now. 
Alec eyed the platform where Freddy Fazbear and all his friends performed 
animatronic routines. He was always a little unsettled by the way their 
robotic bodies were eerily still after the show, while the rest of the 
restaurant chimed with the clinks and buzzers of the games. 

He backed away from the stage unconsciously, and was only aware that 
he’d moved when the back of his heel hit something. He turned to find 
himself uncomfortably close to a raised platform holding a smaller version 
of the bear onstage, only this bear had an unlit sign over it that read LONELY 
FREDDY. 

It was a weird name for a toy, but the weirdest parts of it were harder to 
define. The bear stood stiff, almost at attention. Its eyes stared straight 
ahead at the stage, but Alec had the strangest feeling that it was still 
watching him. 

“Maybe I want this year to be different,” Hazel said, and Alec jumped a 
little at her voice. He’d gotten so lost in the staring Freddy that he forgot 
she was standing right there. 

“So what, you want more presents?” he asked. “You know you’re going 
to get everything you want anyway,” he said, and this time, he let a little of 


the venom escape. He couldn’t help it. How ungrateful could she be? He 
was the one who nobody liked, who had to fight for everything, who was 
constantly misunderstood. 

“There’s some stuff even Mom and Dad can’t do,” she said, and if Alec 
was Starting to crack, Hazel was, too. He could see her getting a little 
defensive. 

“Trust me, for you, they’1l move mountains.” 

Hazel frowned at him. “They try, you know.” 

“Yeah, they try for you.” 

She set her jaw. “The only reason they do so much stuff for me is 
because they feel so guilty for worrying so much about you. Do you have 
any idea how much time Dad spent planning that camping trip?” 

Alec did know, as a matter of fact. He’d listened to them from the top of 
the stairs as they orchestrated every detail of the trip in order to keep Alec 
calm. Like he was some sort of bomb they had to keep from going off. 

His eyes drifted again to the bear. Alec got the strangest sensation, like 
he wanted to move their argument elsewhere. 

Lonely Freddy, Alec thought to himself. More like Nosy Freddy. 

Hazel put her hands on her hips. “I bet you didn’t even know they moved 
here for you.” 

“What’re you talking about?” Alec said, genuinely confused. His guard 
was slipping, but this was a turn in events he hadn’t been expecting. 

“The only reason we live here instead of our old house is because this 
one’s closer to Aunt Gigi, and they think you like her more than you like 
them because she ‘understands you,’ ” she said, twitching her fingers into 
air quotes. 

“Well ...,” Alec said, unable to argue. He did like his aunt better than his 
parents. 

“Don’t you think maybe that hurt their feelings a little bit?” she said, 
“For you to like mom’s sister better?” 

What was going on here? Where was all this anger coming from? Alec 
was so confused. Hazel was acting like ... like ... him! 

“If they’re so great and I’m so evil,” Alec said, losing all sight of his 
Counter-Counterplan, “then why are you helping me and not them?” 

Of all moments to clam up, Hazel did just that. She recovered her facade 
faster than Alec did, which only worked to infuriate Alec more. She’d 


somehow managed to gain the upper hand despite his five years of 
experience on her. 

“Hazel! Hazel, where are you?” 

Hazel’s green eyes stopped boring a hole through Alec long enough to 
call to their mom. 

“Coming!” 

She turned on her heel and trotted around the corner toward the party 
room, leaving Alec in the company of the eavesdropping Freddy. 

“What’re you looking at?” he snarled at the bear, and he had to suppress 
a chill because he swore he’d seen a reflection in the bear’s eyes. Almost 
like a flash. 

“Creeper,” he said to it before loping down the same path his sister had 
seconds before. 

The Party Prepper was back with another question, and their mom had 
reached peak decision burnout. 

“Hazel, sweetie, do you want to have a chance at the Wind Tunnel?” 

She indicated to the large, tubelike enclosure with the words WIND 
TUNNEL formed into the shape of a tornado above the contraption. Inside, 
there were scraps of paper and confetti left over from the last party. There 
were game tickets and free toy coupons and glittery strips of cellophane 
confetti stuck to the inside of the tube. 

“T don’t care,” she said, but it was such an obvious lie. Alec wasn’t 
fooled, and neither was their mom. 

“But honey, you could have a chance at winning a Yarg Foxy. Isn’t that 
what you want?” 

“Wait, what?” Alec said, utterly betrayed. He couldn’t help it. It was the 
ultimate betrayal. 

Alec had never seen Hazel’s face turn that shade of red. Her entire face 
and neck looked practically scalded. As though she could feel his stare 
through the back of her head, she whipped around to confirm that Alec had 
been witness to the whole exchange. 

Oh, I saw, he thought. The one thing, the one thing you knew I wanted. 

“Okay, I’ll bite,” said Aunt Gigi, interjecting just in time to clue in all of 
the uninitiated. “What’s a Yarg Foxy?” 

The Party Prepper merely pointed to the top level of the prize shelf, a 
huge red sign proclaiming its price: 10,000 tickets. 


“Tt’s that pirate fox,” their mom said dismissively. 

Aunt Gigi walked over to the prize shelf to try to get a closer look. “I 
don’t get it,” she said. 

The Party Prepper sighed. 

“T don’t either,” their mom said, “but kids go nuts for the thing.” 

Hazel looked down at the ground, her ears scarlet. 

“Does it do anything?” Aunt Gigi said. 

“Tt swings a hook,” said their mom. 

“Oh. Then what’s the thing that follows kids around?” said Aunt Gigi, 
directing her question to their mom. 

“Huh?” 

“You know,” Aunt Gigi said, snapping her fingers to try and trigger the 
memory. “The bear or whatever.” 

“Oh, right,” their mom said, turing back to the Party Prepper, whose 
eyes were slow to leave her phone. 

Then, without answering their mom’s question, the prepper turned a dial 
on her hip-clipped walkie-talkie and pressed her finger to her headset. 

“Someone get Daryl to do a Lonely Freddy demo.” 

They could hear the response from the headset even as she pressed it to 
her head. “Daryl’s on break.” 

The prepper released a sigh so long, Alec wondered how she didn’t pass 
out. Then, without a word, she crossed the restaurant toward a platform 
holding a familiar-looking, two-foot bear. The rest of them caught on after a 
minute and followed her like little quail. 

The prepper bent her elbow and stationed her hand palm-up toward the 
bear that looked identical to the one Alec had stared down between the 
Stage and the arcade. Same stock-straight posture. Same dead stare into the 
distance. 

“This is a Lonely Freddy,” the Party Prepper began, reading a script from 
memory in a tone somewhere between apathy and contempt. 

“At Freddy Fazbear’s, we believe that no child should have to 
experience the wonder and delight of Freddy Fazbear’s Family Pizzeria 
alone. Using patented technology and a touch of that Freddy Fazbear magic, 
your child can engage in a getting-to-know-you session with the bear. 
Freddy will learn all about your child’s favorite things, just like a true 
friend.” 


Aunt Gigi leaned close to their mom. “Is it just me, or does ‘Lonely 
Freddy’ sound like the cure for the unwanted kid?” 

“Gigi!” 

“Meg, seriously, it’s a mechanical last resort. As in, no one wants to play 
with this kid, so here’s a machine that’!! do it instead.” 

The Party Prepper, close enough to hear, lifted an eyebrow but didn’t 
argue. 

Alec coughed and muttered, “Losers.” But it was such a terrible act. If 
there was ever a kid who would have been foisted onto a Lonely Freddy at a 
birthday party, it would have been Alec. He might have known that if he’d 
ever been invited to one. 

“For the safety of your children, we must ask that you refrain from 
climbing on, riding, or otherwise mistreating the Lonely Freddys. Parents 
and/or guardians assume full responsibility for the health and welfare of 
their children in the presence of this proprietary technology.” 

And with that, the Party Prepper’s script came to a close, and she walked 
back toward the party room. The rest of them followed, the decision about 
the Wind Tunnel still left unmade. The Lonely Freddy detour had done 
nothing to resolve the question at hand, and they were trying the Party 
Prepper’s last ounce of already depleted patience. 

Aunt Gigi leaned into their mom and muttered, “Can’t you just buy the 
fox and skip the drama? What if she doesn’t get the winning coupon in that 
wind contraption?” 

Their mom looked frantic. “It’s not the same as winning it.” 

Hazel overheard their debate, and though Alec could tell she was trying 
to play it cool, Hazel’s eyes kept darting back to the top shelf of the prize 
counter, where a brand-new Yarg Foxy sat in his box, ready to be taken 
home, underneath a bright red sign that said WIN ME IN THE WIND TUNNEL! 

It was obvious she wanted the fox, so why was she pretending not to? Of 
course, all that mattered was that she wanted it. 

And when you don’t get it, everyone’s going to see you for the spoiled 
phony you are. 

Finally, Alec’s Counter-Counterplan was coming together. 

“Hazel, you should do the Wind Tunnel,” he said to her in a voice 
carefully calibrated to just the right volume to be heard by both her and his 
mom. 


Aunt Gigi cocked her head at Alec, then leaned back into their mom. 
“Did you switch to the organic milk?” 

Their mother pinched the bridge of her nose like she did whenever she 
felt a migraine coming on, then turned to the Party Prepper. 

“Just add the Wind Tunnel to the package,” she said. 

Back at home, Alec and Hazel kept up their new routine, with Alec playing 
the hero and Hazel playing the villain. Their mom pointedly ordered Alec to 
keep away from the freshly mopped kitchen floor, and Hazel responded by 
trekking across the tiles with muddy shoes. Their mom asked Alec to sort 
the recycling, and Hazel instead dumped the bottles and newspapers 
directly into the household garbage dumpster. 

“Hazel, what on earth has gotten into you?” their mom finally broke, and 
Aunt Gigi watched in wide-eyed wonder as Hazel responded. 

“Tl have no idea what you’re talking about,” she said, then scampered 
upstairs and slammed her bedroom door shut. 

Alec took a seat on his usual step at the top of the stairs. 

“Tt’s like she’s possessed!” their mom said. 

“Tt’s like she’s ten,” Aunt Gigi said, and Alec had to laugh because Aunt 
Gigi had no idea she was helping their little act along. The more their 
parents thought they were crazy, the more they’d be tempted to finally do 
away with all the parenting books and remember that Alec wasn’t a 
problem to be solved. Or in this case, he supposed, Hazel. 

“It’s like they’ve switched places, Gigi. It’s creepy!” their mom said. 

“What’s this?” Aunt Gigi said, but Alec couldn’t see what she was 
referring to from his place on the stairs. 

“Tt’s just this book,” their mom said, the exhaustion in her voice making 
it clear she’d lost her faith in The Plan Planner. 

“Meg, you know I think it’s great how you and Jan are always working 
to make sure you don’t raise a couple of serial killers.” 

“Thanks, Gigi,” their mom said dryly. “Glad to know our efforts are 
evident.” 

“T mean it. I think you guys are really good parents,” said Aunt Gigi. 

“I’m sensing a ‘but’ in there somewhere,” their mom said. 


“But, don’t you ever wonder if in all your efforts to make them normal 
kids—whatever that means—if maybe you’ve ...” 

“Tf we’ve what?” their mom didn’t sound so much defensive as petrified 
of the answer. 

“Maybe you’ve made them what they are,” Aunt Gigi said, pausing for a 
moment before adding: “Hazel’s the easy one. Alec is the hard one. It’s like 
you put them on their own little islands.” 

“Gigi, I love you,” his mom said. 

“I’m sensing a ‘but’ here,” Aunt Gigi said. 

“But if one more person tells me how to raise my kids, I’m gonna 
scream,” his mom said. 

To her credit, Aunt Gigi was silent after that. 

“T just want us to be a family. An actual family,” Alec’s mom said, and 
he thought she’d never sounded more tired than she did right then. 

“Congratulations,” his aunt Gigi said dryly. “You are one.” 

As Alec stood to sneak off to his room, he heard his mom laugh at Aunt 
Gigi’s joke, though there was really nothing funny about it. 

Just like Hazel, Alec’s mom had everything she wanted, but she still 
wanted more. She wanted the perfect kids with the perfect manners in the 
perfect house. It wasn’t enough for Hazel to have all the friends in the 
world and the most epic party every single year for her birthday. She had to 
have a stupid fox, too. Why? Because it’s the one thing she didn’t have in 
her spoiled life. 

Well, Alec understood now. He saw his sister for the entitled, fake Hazel 
she really was, and she’d done her level best to make him out to be the 
spoiled one, all so he wouldn’t ruin her stupid special party day. 

Nice try, Sis, he thought, and he could feel an outer shell harden around 
his rapidly beating heart. Nice try, but you’re in for quite the surprise on 
party day. 

His Counter-Counterplan was in full swing. 


Alec’s parents were about to crack. Hazel had only been kidding that night 
she asked if Alec thought they would break them, but it seems her question 
was rooted in at least a little reality. 


They were barely holding it together by Thursday. Alec and Hazel had 
tormented them to within an inch of their lives. Alec had brought home a 
“pet” wolf spider, and Hazel had set it free in their parents’ bed. Alec 
“helpfully” ordered a pizza for dinner, but Hazel secretly added double 
anchovies under the cheese. A friendly game of charades initiated by Alec 
ended with their mom practically in tears as the word GOAT came up, and 
Hazel mimed “What Mom smells like!” 

Friday was more of a blur, with their dad doing all he could to keep the 
peace the day before Hazel’s party, even though neither of their parents 
were feeling particularly celebratory toward their Golden Hazel. 

“Tt has to be hormonal or something,” they could hear their dad say as 
Alec and Hazel eavesdropped from their perch at the top of the stairs. 
“She’s probably nervous about making sure all her little friends have fun at 
the party.” 

“Tan, I woke up last night to a spider the size of my palm crawling 
through my hair,” their mom said, her voice wavering as she neared tears 
for the umpteenth time that week. 

“Oh man, I thought they found that yesterday,” Alec whispered, and 
flinched as a stab of actual guilt hit his gut. 

“They did,” Hazel said. “I, um, re-rescued it.” 

Alec stared at this stranger he thought was his sister. His resolve toward 
exposing her may have doubled, but he couldn’t deny he was genuinely 
impressed. He couldn’t have thought up half the mini-disasters she’d set 
loose in their house over this past week. He found himself lamenting the 
return to their separate islands once this whole ruse was over. Regardless of 
the reasons or the double- and triple-crossing at play, he was going to miss 
her. He couldn’t remember the last time he’d felt such a close camaraderie 
to this little stranger. 

Maybe he couldn’t remember because he’d never actually had one 
before. 

Saturday morning, their parents did something they hadn’t done in years: 
They let Alec and Hazel sleep for as long as they wanted. Hazel woke up 
much earlier than Alec, but she chose to stay in her room, playing quietly 
until Alec finally got up at nine o’clock. 

As soon as his bedsprings creaked and he rose to sit on the edge of his 
bed, he heard Hazel’s soft footsteps padding from her bedroom to his. The 


bathroom door creaked open, and she entered his room with a casualness 
that would have been unheard of seven days ago. 

“Big day,” Alec said, studying her face for a reaction. 

He’d expected excitement, or smugness, maybe even a twinge of guilt at 
all the torture they’d put their parents through, a sort of practice she wasn’t 
accustomed to, no matter how much she had decided she wanted to be a 
little less Golden. 

He didn’t see any of that in her face, though. He saw the usual evenly 
spaced freckles, the wide, light-green eyes, the perfect blonde ringlets that 
haloed her head. But there was something else. It was impossible to believe 
it was anything other than abject sadness. 

“You’re about to get everything you want,” he said, scrutinizing her, but 
she gave nothing away. 

“Yup,” she said, though it was clear she didn’t agree. 

“You know, after this, you can probably go back to being nice, and 
they’ ll totally forgive you,” he said. 

He, on the other hand, could go back to being his usual rotten self after 
this, and he’d receive zero credit for having been decent to his family for 
the last week. 

“Yeah, you’re probably right,” she said, taking a seat on the carpet 
beside his bed. 

As she started to pick at the lint in the rug, Alec started to wonder if 
that’s what she wanted, to go back to being the good one. 

And he was surprised to find that regardless of what she wanted, that 
was what he wanted. All this plotting and counterplotting was getting 
exhausting. He thought he could outplay his sister and protect his status as 
the bad egg, and maybe he still could. But what was it all for anyway? So 
he could keep himself exiled to his own little island in the house? 

Had it really been that bad hanging out with her for the last week? 

She started to stand up and walk toward the door, avoiding eye contact 
with Alec, and he found himself saying what he said next without even 
thinking. 

“Happy birthday,” he said, and this time, she did turn to look at him. 

And she smiled. He thought it was real. He didn’t want to think it was 
anything other than that. This morning had been very confusing. 


xk k& * 


The party was all the barely controlled chaos it had been in previous years. 
Kids standing on chairs rubbing balloons on one another’s heads to create 
Static. Parents calling out “Where’s Jimmy? Has anyone seen Jimmy?” 
Freddy Fazbear staff expertly sidestepping spilled orange drink and fielding 
requests for more ranch dressing. 

Amid the chaos, Alec could see one or two kids from the party walking 
around the restaurant with a two-foot Lonely Freddy in tow. It might have 
been cute if it hadn’t been so creepy, watching this not-quite-tall but not- 
quite-short bear follow its “friend” around, listening and waiting for cues 
before acting autonomously. And Aunt Gigi’s comment may have rung a 
little too true for Alec’s comfort, but that day, he saw that truth in all its 
baldness—the kids who played too rough, whose noses crusted around the 
nostrils, whose faces twisted into sour frowns, were the ones followed by 
the bears and no one else. 

Hazel wasn’t quite the Golden Hazel she’d been in previous years, but 
she was more or less back to her old self. She politely thanked her friends 
for buying her the gifts she acted like she wasn’t expecting. She helped her 
mom pass cake around to all the guests and her parents before taking a bite 
herself. She spent equal time with each kid who attended, making sure not 
to let anyone feel left out as they breezed from game to game in the arcade. 

Alec sat in the corner and played his role of the sulking, teenaged older 
brother. By all rights, if he’d wanted one, he easily could have earned his 
own Lonely Freddy. 

In a strange turn of events, his parents seemed relieved to see everything 
return to its normal, inadequate existence. Whereas in previous years, they 
would have been urging him to go play with his sister, nudging him to 
smile, prodding him to help them drag the presents to the car, this year they 
seemed just fine with allowing him to slouch in a chair and scowl at the 
partygoers. 

“T think it’s all going pretty well, don’t you?” his dad asked his mom and 
Aunt Gigi. 

“Did anyone remind the staff that Charlotte can’t have chocolate? I 
should probably go remind them,” his mom said. 


“It’s going great,” Aunt Gigi said, casting a sideways look at Alec, who 
simply shrugged. 

Actually, it was going great. His sister was once again recognizable to 
their parents, the party only had an hour left until things were to wind 
down, and no one had gotten injured or poisoned. All in all, a notable 
success. 

Except it wasn’t a success. Alec hadn’t been able to play his trump card 
yet. And he hadn’t been able to play it because Hazel wasn’t playing her 
part anymore. 

She’d done everything: played Skee-Ball, fought zombies in the virtual 
reality battleground, shot about a million baskets, watched two full 
performances of the Freddy Fazbear band ... Yet every time the Party 
Prepper had come into the room trying to convince her to head over to the 
Wind Tunnel to snag the coupon for her prize, she found a reason not to go 
in. Instead, she’d look toward Alec, as though in some sort of silent 
standoff, and say to the Party Prepper, “I don’t know if I want to do that 
anymore.” 

“But honey, that’s all you’ve been talking about for weeks is trying to 
win the Yarg Foxy,” their mom would say, but every time, she would blow 
the Party Prepper off and run away to play some other game with her 
friends. 

Aunt Gigi shrugged. “Maybe she doesn’t want it anymore. Kids are 
fickle.” 

Alec had been so prepared. He’d snuck away when nobody was looking. 
He’d sifted through three full buckets of coupons, tickets, and confetti that 
clung to him like spiderwebs, until at last he’d found the single Yarg Foxy 
ticket in the materials meant for the Wind Tunnel. He’d pocketed the 
coupon and gone about his sulking way, and no one was the wiser. 

But if Hazel wasn’t going to take her turn in the Wind Tunnel, it was all 
for nothing. 

Alec realized if he was going to expose her for the brat she was, he was 
going to have to take a more active role than he had been taking. 

“Maybe she’s afraid of being disappointed,” he said to his mom, and his 
mom seemed to think that was a pretty reasonable idea. 

“Alec, you two have been getting along so famously lately. Maybe you 
should try to convince her. I’m just afraid she’s going to leave today and 


regret not even trying.” 

“Sure thing, Mom,” Alec said, laying it on a little thick, but it fooled his 
mom, and she nodded approvingly as he headed to the arcade to fetch his 
sister. 

He found her by the Whack-a-Mole tables. 

“Oh, Hazel, a word?” he said, pulling her by the elbow with a sappy 
smile while her friends distracted themselves. He found himself standing 
once again in the aisle between the Fazbear stage and the arcade. Only this 
time, there was no creepy bear to stare blankly off in the distance. The 
platform and bear had been removed, leaving only an impression on the 
carpet in front of the pillar. 

“What gives?” Alec said once they were out of earshot. 

“What do you mean?” she actually had the nerve to say, squirming out of 
his grip while she looked back to wave to her friends. 

“T mean you’re back to being perfect little Hazel, and Mom and Dad are 
catching on,” he said, hoping she’d take the bait. 

“What’re you talking about? Mom and Dad are thrilled. Everything is 
back to normal.” 

She seemed mad at him for some reason, and he wondered for a second 
if she’d figured his plan out to expose her as a phony. 

Which is maybe why he played his hand a little too aggressively. 

“You know, the party’s almost over. You’re going to go home without 
your stupid toy if you don’t get in that Wind Tunnel.” 

She shrugged, looking down. Her freckles practically disappeared under 
her flushed cheeks. 

“Maybe I don’t need the toy anymore,” she said. 

“Of course you do!” he said, unleashing the full magnitude of his anger. 
She was clearly doing everything she could to push him to his limit. 
“You’re not gonna get everything you want forever. Soon, you’re going to 
get older, and you won’t be so precious, and then who’s going to like you?” 

In all of her ten years, outside of the infant months, Alec had never seen 
his sister cry. Maybe she had thrown a fit or two when she was a toddler, 
but he’d always found better places to be when that sort of drama went 
down. 

But in that moment, for reasons he couldn’t begin to understand, he 
watched as her light-green eyes rippled with tears. And though she wouldn’t 


let them spill to her cheeks, he could tell it was a monumental effort on her 
part to keep them in. 

“Fine,” she said, and not a word more. She shoved past him and walked 
straight through her crowd of friends in the arcade toward the party room, 
greeting her mom and dad and aunt with nary a smile before demanding to 
be let into the Wind Tunnel. 

“Oh ... oh, yes! Okay!” their mom said, not the enthusiasm she’d been 
counting on, but she was quick to take action. “She’s ready for the Wind 
Tunnel!” she called out to the Freddy’s staff like they were her ladies-in- 
waiting. 

Two employees prepped the chamber by emptying the buckets of game 
tickets and coupons and sticky cellophane confetti into the top of the tube 
before flipping a switch to activate a strobe light that couldn’t be looked at 
for too long without causing a touch of nausea. 

Another flip of a switch, and the wind in the tunnel was activated, 
sending the assortment of paper and mylar whirling through the tube, 
mixing up the prize coupons in a dizzying frenzy. 

They switched the machine off again, then rather unceremoniously 
grabbed Hazel by the wrists and pulled her through the little entrance door 
to the tube. The strobe lights reactivated, and as moths to a flickering flame, 
her friends migrated from the arcade back into the party room to witness the 
birthday girl’s tornado of potential prizes. 

“Are. You. Ready??” asked an employee. 

Hazel simply nodded, and Alec watched with measured awe as the storm 
kicked up around her, whipping her golden curls in front of her face and 
momentarily obscuring her behind the chaos. 

“Grab the tickets!” her friends screamed from behind Alec. 

“Oh! Oh, the Yarg Foxy coupon! It’s right there, baby, it’s right there!” 
his mom hollered, jumping up and down as though that could help. But 
Alec knew better. He touched the side of his jeans pocket where the single 
crinkled Yarg Foxy coupon resided. 

Hazel barely reacted to the screams, though. She held her hands out 
haphazardly, making minimal attempts to grasp at any of the frenzied 
papers that flitted in and out of her fingers. 

“Is she okay?” their dad asked, squinting into the chaos of the tube. “You 
don’t think she’s gonna puke, do you?” 


“Oh boy, that would be a mess,” Aunt Gigi said, and Alec had to stifle a 
snort. 

“Come on, Hazel!” he shouted above the crowd, pretending to cheer 
along with them. “Get that certificate! Get that fox!” 

But it was no use. Either she couldn’t hear, or she simply didn’t care. 

When the Wind Tunnel timer buzzed, Freddy Fazbear associates 
dutifully pulled the plug, and the storm inside the enclosure came to an 
abrupt end. 

“Okay, boys and girls!” the employee shouted into a microphone. “Let’s 
see what the birthday girl has won!” 

Kids from the party pushed and shoved toward the cylinder with Hazel 
inside it, and she sidestepped their greedy hands as they snatched at the free 
tickets like they were actual dollar bills. 

“Well, Hannah, what’ve we got?” said the employee. 

“Tt’s Hazel,” Aunt Gigi corrected. 

“Okay!” said the employee, ignoring Aunt Gigi and _ stepping 
dramatically over to Hazel as she cast him a wary look. “Let’s see here!” 

She handed him all the papers she had reluctantly grasped against her 
body, allowing him to sift through the various coupons and announce each 
one like she’d won the lottery. 

“One free fountain drink! A bonus round at the Sky Dunk! One ... no, 
make that two promotional Freddy Fazbear character cups!” 

As the employee came to the end of the stack Hazel had captured, their 
mother started to shift nervously. 

“She didn’t get the fox,” Alec heard her fret to their dad. 

“Meg, relax. She doesn’t even want it anymore.” 

“Yes, she does, Ian. She’s just trying to be a big girl.” 

“Well, Hannah, that’s quite a haul!” the employee said once he’d read off 
all the prizes. 

“Hazel!” Aunt Gigi yelled, and this time the announcer looked over his 
shoulder long enough to cast her a sidelong glance. 

“Hazel,” he corrected, grimacing at Aunt Gigi, who smiled her fakest 
smile back. 

“Wait!” screamed the girl named Charlotte who couldn’t eat chocolate. 
“Look in her hair!” 


Sure enough, as her friends spun her to the side, Hazel’s curls cradled a 
small glittery ticket that looked different than any of the others she’d 
managed to capture in the tunnel. 

But Alec recognized it immediately. 

“Tt’s the Yarg Foxy! It’s the Yarg Foxy!” screamed Charlotte. 

It’s not possible, Alec thought. Anger burbled in the pit of his stomach 
and began to churn, ready to erupt at any second. 

He remembered the tube before the Wind Tunnel had turned on. There’d 
been little scraps in there from the last round. And in that small pile of 
glittery confetti and tickets, a single Yarg Foxy coupon must have been 
hiding, waiting to be kicked up again by a renewed wind. 

Alec was certain she hadn’t meant for it to, but Hazel’s face completely 
transformed. It was only for a fraction of a second, but he was looking at 
her at just the right time. And in that split second, he saw her utter relief at 
having won the prize she was determined not to want when the day came to 
get it. 

And no one would get to see the epic tantrum of Golden Hazel, the girl 
who had everything but didn’t get the fox. 

“That’s right, boys and girls! Hazel has won her very own Yarg Foxy!” 
the announcer cried, and the kids from the party practically went into 
convulsions. 

They followed the employee all the way to the prize counter and 
swarmed him as he lifted the boxed Yarg Foxy from the highest shelf, 
bestowing it upon Hazel like she’d just been crowned the queen. 

“What a relief!” Their mom sighed, falling back into a chair. 

Alec looked at her like she’d just grown a second head. A relief? 

“Tt’s a joke!” he said, and she scowled at Alec. 

“How can you say that? You know how much she wanted that toy.” 

“Does she look like she wants the stupid toy?” he groused, still furious 
that Hazel was doing all she could to hide the fact that she was the spoiled 
one. 

Alec watched as she unboxed the fox and held it in her hands, smiling at 
it like it was some sort of long forgotten treasure. 

“Let me see, let me see!” her friends begged, but Hazel smiled shyly and 
shook her head. 


“Honey, why don’t you want to play with it?” their dad asked, and Hazel 
simply demurred. It wasn’t until her friends had lost interest and migrated 
back toward the arcade that their mom finally pulled Hazel aside. 

“Sweetie, what is it? Don’t you want the fox anymore?” she asked, and 
Alec had just about had all he could take. 

“Of course not! She gets everything she wants, and she’s still not 
satisfied! But aw, isn’t it sad that Hazel doesn’t want the fox anymore?” 
Alec bellowed. He mocked. He sneered. But no one was listening. 

That’s when Hazel excused herself for a good long while. It had to have 
been at least ten minutes. 

“T told you she was going to throw up,” their dad said. “I’ll go check on 
her.” 

But just as he was headed to the back room where Hazel had 
disappeared, she reappeared with the fox, still clutching it in her hands like 
it was suddenly very important to her after all. 

“Hazel, sweetie, are you feeling okay?” their mom asked, stroking 
Hazel’s curls, and suddenly, Hazel didn’t look so glum or distracted (or 
nauseous, to hear their dad tell it). Instead, she leaned into her mom and 
whispered something that made their mom practically melt into a little 
puddle, right there on the Freddy Fazbear’s floor. 

Then their mom did something unexpected. 

“Alec, come here, hon,” she said, and Alec eyed them both suspiciously. 
To be fair, so did their dad and Aunt Gigi. 

“Just come here,” their mom said, rolling her eyes, but she was still 
smiling. 

Alec approached his mom and sister with caution. He had the distinct 
impression he was walking into a trap. 

“Go on, Hazel. Tell him what you told me,” their mom said. 

Hazel looked mortified. Her face was practically buried in the plush fox. 

“Look at you. Shy as ever. Okay, I’ll just be right over here,” their mom 
cooed, and Alec was about to climb out of his skin. 

“What the heck are you doing?” he whispered through gritted teeth. He 
was so close—so close—to beating his sister at her own game. 

No, his own game. This was his to win. 

“Nothing,” she said. “I don’t want to do this anymore.” 


“Do what?” Alec said, growing nervous. He looked up at his parents, but 
it didn’t appear they’d heard anything. 

“1 don’t want to pretend to be bad anymore. It was just to get you to like 
me.” 

Alec was speechless. 

“Huh?” 

“Here,” she said, and shoved the Yarg Foxy into his chest. “It’s for you.” 

“Aw, sweetie, look!” their mom said, and their dad shushed her, but their 
parents and Aunt Gigi continued to stare. 

“You can’t be serious,” Alec said. 

“T only wanted it so I could give it to you,” she said. 

“What the heck am I gonna do with a stupid fox?” he asked. No, he 
demanded. This was all just too much. How had she so expertly bested 
him? 

“I wanted you to stop hating me so much. Just take it, okay?” she said, 
and shoved it into his chest. 

None of this was working out the way it was supposed to. She was 
supposed to miss out on the fox, throw the epic fit he just knew she’d been 
storing up inside all week, and when his parents and all her friends saw her 
for the spoiled brat she really was, life should have gone back to the way 
Alec had enjoyed it before: with him to act in relative obscurity, without the 
burden of Golden Hazel’s constant goodness. 

But now, she had the fox, and what was she doing? She was giving it to 
him! In an act of utter sainthood, she was giving her most prized possession 
to him. She’s won it for him. Because she knew how much he’d always 
wanted one. 

She’d just checkmated. 

“No,” he said, flinging the fox back at her. “No, I don’t want it.” 

“Alec! What sort of way is that to act toward your sister? She’s giving 
you her gift on her birthday!” their mom cried. 

“She’s such a phony! Can’t you people see that?? She’s the worst kind of 
spoiled, bratty fake! How can you not see that?” 

Alec was ranting now. It was all he could do to keep his head from 
spinning on his neck, Exorcist-style. 

“You want me to take the fox?” he said, and he could only guess by the 
way his mother looked at him that he looked positively maniacal. “Okay 


fine, I’ll take the fox.” 

He ripped the toy back from his sister’s grasp hard enough to tear the 
arm, sending soft tufts of stuffing floating into the air. 

Their mother let out an involuntary shriek, and Aunt Gigi put her hand 
on her sister’s shoulder. 

“Meg, get a grip. You’re making it worse.” 

Their dad tried to make it better. 

“Alec, come on, sport. Don’t do this today.” 

“Oh, I see, because it’s so predicable that Alec would ruin the party. It’s 
so inevitable that Alec would spoil perfect little Hazel’s good time,” he 
said, snarling at his family, who could only look back at him in horror. 

All of them, that is, except for Hazel. Hazel simply stood there, arms 
limp at her sides as she stared at him. 

And there they were. The tears. 

She hadn’t let them fall earlier. She had saved it all up for that moment, 
when she had the perfect audience. That’s when she let the floodgates open. 
And even still, she only let a few fall. 

“T can’t take it anymore!” Alec raged, and carried by the wind of the 
truly possessed, he fled the scene of his worst crime yet. He’d brought the 
whole party crashing down around him, just as they’d all predicted he 
would. He’d done his very best to get the better of his sister, and in the end, 
she’d still won. 

And if that wasn’t enough, she’d actually made him believe—for the 
briefest moment—that she really was as good as she pretended to be. And 
that she’d wanted to be his friend. 

Pounding a path through the pizzeria, Alec whizzed past confused- 
looking staff and his sister’s gang of friends and one or two Lonely Freddy 
bears, barely registering any of it, including Hazel’s friend, Charlotte, who 
was about to puke because someone had ignored all warnings to the 
contrary and fed her chocolate. 

He didn’t stop running until he’d pushed himself through at least three 
sets of doors and left the cacophony of kids and games and bells and 
singing behind him. He was somewhere in the cramped maze of backrooms 
that made up the inner workings of Freddy Fazbear’s Family Pizzeria. 

He slowed to a walk as he tried to catch his breath, but it wasn’t until 
he’d come to a complete standstill that he realized why it was he couldn’t 


seem to exhale. It was because he kept gulping air in. 

It was because he was sobbing. Just like a little kid. Just like a spoiled 
brat. 

He backed against a wall and threw his shoulders against it, once and 
then again, tucking his chin to his chest as he let his shoulders absorb all the 
shock. 

“Tt’s not my fault,” he said, again and again. “It’s not my fault.” 

But the more he heard his pathetic words in his ears, the more he knew 
they weren’t true. It was his fault, all of it. He’d ruined the party, ruined 
Hazel, ruined his whole fifteen years by believing everyone was out to get 
him. He closed his eyes as he threw his shoulders again and again against 
the wall as he pictured Hazel’s watery eyes, the lines creasing his mom’s 
forehead, his dad’s head shaking in disappointment. 

Finally, he’d tired himself out enough to stop slamming against the wall, 
only to realize it wasn’t a wall at all; it was a door. And what he’d thought 
was the sound of his own tantrum was actually a sound coming from the 
other side of the door, something that sounded like a loud thumping. 

Pressing his head against the door for a closer listen, he looked up and 
down the hallway to make sure no one was coming before he ducked into 
the room with the strange sound. 

The light switch was deep inside the room to his right, and he had to 
walk several steps in the dark, groping the wall until he finally found it, the 
door having closed with a heavy thunk just after he’d stepped inside. 

When the room was finally lit, he saw it was something of a storage 
room, only far more cluttered with what appeared to be abandoned toys, 
arcade games, and machinery than the extra stocks of napkins and paper 
cups he was expecting. The back wall was lined with long-dormant arcade 
games Alec could remember being popular ten or so years ago. Folded 
cafeteria-style tables were stacked in rows against a side wall, their attached 
circular seats giving the arrangement a look like dominoes. The wall closest 
to him consisted of rows of wire racks, each holding various broken or 
dated toys that might once have been part of the prize counter display. Now, 
the cluttered shelves of sad, ownerless toys looked less like prizes and more 
like the stuff that goes missing under kids’ beds. 

He slumped into one of the seats of a cafeteria table that had fallen from 
its place against the wall. 


His nose was still running from his meltdown in the hallway, and when 
he lifted his hand to drag it across his face, he felt a tickle of plush and 
remembered he was still holding the fox. 

Its torn arm dangled by a few stubborn threads. Otherwise, the toy was 
shiny new, just as it had been promised to the kid lucky enough to get that 
stupid coupon. 

“You weren’t even supposed to be here,” he said to the fox, but he 
couldn’t muster the rage to give the words any bite. He was all angered out. 
In fact, he could hardly feel anything but the shame of having failed so 
miserably to show his sister up. 

Her words rang in his ears: I wanted you to stop hating me so much. 

This couldn’t be it. This couldn’t be what his sister had wanted this 
whole time—to win a toy he’d never gotten because good kids earned 
10,000 ticket prizes and bad kids got followed around by a bear for a friend. 

Alec held his head in his hands, hoping his mind would still. But 
memories of his sister came rushing back, crashing through his skull and 
ping-ponging off the insides of his brain like a dated arcade game. 

The pictures she would draw for him and randomly slip under the crack 
of the bathroom door. 

The dumb jokes he’d make that only she would laugh at. 

The last piece of pumpkin pie she would never eat at Thanksgiving 
because she knew it was his favorite. 

There were all the moments over the past week, times when he thought 
she’d been one-upping him, trying to outdo his cunning. Times when he’d 
thought he caught her looking at him but couldn’t figure out what she was 
thinking. He’d just assumed she was scheming. But what if she was just 
looking? What if she was just waiting for him to look back at her? 

What if she was just waiting for him to be a big brother? 

Alec could barely form a cogent thought. 

It seemed impossible that he’d gotten it all so wrong: the attention his 
parents lavished on her and spared for him; the bad seed label he’d given 
himself that he was so certain the family had given him; the days and 
months and years he’d spent lamenting his outsider-ness. What if they’d all 
actually wanted him inside with the rest of them? 

He thought about what Hazel told him the other day, how she’d seemed 
so upset, and he couldn’t figure out why. 


I bet you didn’t even know that we moved here for you. 

She was trying to tell him, to get him to understand. 

I wanted you to stop hating me so much. 

Alec couldn’t control himself. He clutched the pirate fox, squeezing the 
life it didn’t have out of it before throwing it as hard as he could into the 
shelves beside him, knocking a bin of outdated, unwanted toys to the floor 
right along with the brand-new Yarg Foxy with the torn arm. All the toys 
fell in a collective heap to the floor, spilling across the dusty ground in 
various thumps and squeaks. 

“Great,” Alec said. “Just fantastic.” 

It wasn’t enough he’d ruined the party and hurt Hazel, but now he was 
going to get in trouble for trashing the back room of Freddy Fazbear’s. 

He ducked behind the shelving rack and began sifting through the toys, 
throwing them back into the bin they fell out of while doing his best to 
locate the fox. After everything he’d already done, losing the toy she gave 
to him just wasn’t an option. Not if he ever had any hope of making things 
right. 

But finding the Yarg Foxy proved to be a harder task than he’d thought it 
would be. There were rubber ducks and plastic snakes and felt puppets, but 
there was no peg-legged fox with a tragically torn arm. 

“C’mon, seriously?” Alec said, exasperated and utterly exhausted by this 
time. 

All he wanted was for this horrible day to be over with. 

Alec was so lost in the sea of toys that he forgot about the thumping— 
that strange sound he’d heard on the other side of the door before pushing 
his way in. He hadn’t heard it again since opening the door, but the 
thumping was back now, echoing from some part of the room he couldn’t 
see. Now that he was behind the shelving unit, though, he could tell that the 
sound was coming from somewhere close by. 

He peered into the far comer of the room, in a cluttered area behind the 
very last shelving unit lining the wall. There, tucked into a shadowy corner, 
was a large green Dumpster-type container, a padlock sealing the lid shut. 

Alec took a few slow steps closer to the Dumpster, hoping beyond hope 
that the thumping wasn’t coming from inside that bin. 

Now beside the bin, he hadn’t heard any more thumping for the last 
several seconds, and he was mostly satisfied that he’d been mistaken. 


Clearly, the thumping had to be coming from the other side of the wall the 
Dumpster leaned against. 

But just as Alec slid his fingers underneath the lid to peek through the 
crack allowed by the lock, the bin rattled and thumped, and he stumbled 
backward, scooting as far away from the container as he could get. 

His heart pounded hard enough in his chest that he thought it might 
explode, but when nothing crawled out from under the crack in the lid, his 
pulse eventually began to slow to a normal pace. 

Rats. It had to be rats, or some other sort of vermin. 

“Glad I didn’t eat the pizza,” he said to himself and felt his stomach turn. 

Leaning on his elbows, Alec found himself wedged between the wall and 
the farthest shelving unit from the door, buried behind a sea of forgotten 
things. 

And there, staring at him from underneath a colorful canopy like 
something he might have seen in a circus, was a Lonely Freddy bear, just 
like the one he’d seen staring into nowhere that day he argued with Hazel. 

“You again,” he said to it. “You being punished or something?” 

But he immediately disliked the thought of the already unsettling bear 
having ... misbehaved. 

He stared at the bear as it stood at attention on its platform under the 
canopy, seeming to gaze at something just over Alec’s shoulder. 

Alec turned and looked at the green Dumpster behind him, but when he 
turned back around, he was startled to find that the Lonely Freddy’s eyes 
had somehow shifted. 

They seemed to looking right at Alec. 

“T’ve been waiting for you, friend,” the bear said. 

Alec stopped and stared at the bear. 

“Um, that’s great,” he said to it, and that should have been the end of it. 

Alec didn’t expect it to say something else. 

“We should be best friends.” 

“What?” Alec said, looking a little harder at the bear. Was this how it 
was supposed to work? He thought it was supposed to be sort of 
interviewing him. But the bear wasn’t asking him questions so much as it 
was ... telling him things. 

“Very best friends,” said the bear. 


“Okay,” Alec said, trying to brush off the chill that kept running up his 
arm. 

It’s a stuffed animal, he said to himself. It’s a stupid toy. 

But it was strange that no matter how many times he tried, Alec couldn’t 
seem to stand up. He couldn’t seem to look away from the bear. All he 
could do was sit there and stare at it as it stared back. 

Alec had never noticed the bear’s eyes before. Had they always been that 
blue? And if he didn’t know better, he’d think that they were almost 
glowing. But that was crazy. 

Then it did start to ask him questions. 

“What’s your favorite color?” 

“My favorite color?” Alec asked, almost as if he wasn’t in control of his 
own voice anymore. “My favorite color is green.” 

The bear moved immediately to the next question. Wasn’t it supposed to 
share things about it, too? 

“What’s your favorite food?” 

“Lasagna,” said Alec, his answer automatic and immediate. 

“What do you want to be when you grow up?” 

“A pro skateboarder.” 

“What’s your best subject in school?” 

“History.” 

It went on like that for what felt to Alec like hours, but it couldn’t 
possibly have been that long. He was having such a hard time feeling the 
floor underneath him or the sensation in his fingers. It was like he was 
floating, like he was hearing every question drift to him from the end of a 
long tunnel. 

Then the bear’s questions took a different turn. 

“Who do you admire most?” 

“My aunt Gigi.” 

“What do you fear the most?” 

“The dark.” 

“What would you do if you were asked to hurt someone you love?” 

It felt like the bear was reaching its soft, plush paw into his very soul and 
extracting the answers he kept the most hidden. And it was doing it so 
effortlessly. 

Its eyes were as blue and deep as an ocean trench. 


“What’s your biggest regret?” 

And at this question, Alec did stop. He resisted at first, or maybe he 
simply didn’t know the answer. But the bear wouldn’t move on. It asked 
again. 

“What’s your biggest regret?” 

Still, Alec hesitated, and the pull from inside of him began to grow 
painful, like something was squeezing him from his very core. 

“What is your biggest regret ... Alec?” 

With the pressure building from inside, he could barely breathe against 
the pain, and through the tiny spaces in his gritted teeth, the answer trickled 
out. 

“Hurting Hazel.” 

The pressure eased, and sensation eventually returned to Alec’s body, 
warming his extremities all the way to the middle of him. But when his 
body breathed back to life, something felt fundamentally different. 

He stared hard into the blue eyes that had burned through his soul, and 
he searched for answers of his own, but he only came away with more 
questions because the blue eyes of the bear had suddenly turned light green. 

“What’s happening?” he tried to ask the bear, because suddenly, the bear 
seemed to be the one with all the answers, but Alec couldn’t open his 
mouth. 

He stared and he stared, and the bear simply stared back. 

A panicky feeling began to rise in his chest. 

I just need to get outside, he thought. I need some air. 

But breathing wasn’t his problem. Moving was. 

He tried to extend his leg to stand, but nothing happened. He wanted to 
push his palm to the floor to brace himself, but he couldn’t. 

Voices, faint at first but growing louder as they approached, gave him a 
touch of renewed hope. He recognized them immediately. 

“Mom! Hazel!” he called out, or at least he tried, but every time he felt 
his throat flex to yell, the words struggled to find their way out. 

“Don’t worry, sweetie, we’ ll find it,” he could hear his mom say. 

The thumping from the giant bin behind him kicked up again, and he 
wanted so badly to move away from it, but nothing was working. Every 
muscle suddenly felt crystalized. 


“Did you hear that?” Alec heard Hazel say from the other side of the 
door. 

Yes! Screamed Alec. In here! Look in here! 

He could hear the door open from the other side of the room, but he 
couldn’t see around the shelving unit. All he could see was the bear as its 
newly green eyes bore through him. 

“T don’t think we’re supposed to be in here,” Alec’s mom said, and he 
thought he’d never been more relieved to hear her voice. 

“Mom, look!” said Hazel. 

For a second, Alec’s heart leapt. They’d spotted him. He couldn’t see 
them, but maybe they saw him. 

What if I’m having some sort of seizure? he thought. 

No matter, though. His mom and his sister were here to help now. 

Except why weren’t they talking to him? Why hadn’t they come around 
the side of the shelving unit? 

“Aw, see?” his mom said. “I told you we’d find it.” 

But you haven’t found me! Alec tried desperately to scream. I’m right 
here! I’m right here! 

The thumping from the bin had gone silent the moment the door opened, 
and why now? Why couldn’t the noise pick up again now? 

“He just ... threw it in here,” Hazel said, and the pain in her voice was 
enough to make Alec feel like the smallest, most disgusting cockroach. 

“Hazel,” their mom said, her voice so gentle. “He loves you. I know he 
does. In his own way, he really does love you. Just like we love him.” 

Alec’s throat tightened into a knot, and this was the moment. This was 
finally the moment he would tell them how sorry he was, how wrong he 
was, how much he’d missed out on by wanting so badly to believe he was 
on the outside. 

Now all he felt was that he was somehow trapped ... inside. 

“Come on, sweets. The party is going to wrap up soon. Let’s go polish 
off that cake, shall we?” 

“Hang on,” Hazel said. 

Please see me, Alec silently pleaded. See me. 

“Oh, don’t worry about the arm, hon. I can fix that when we get home,” 
said their mom. 

Then he heard the worst sound. He heard Hazel choke on a sob. 


“Oh, honey ...,” their mom said. 

“He hates me,” said Hazel. 

“He doesn’t hate you. He’s never hated you.” 

That was the thing, though. Alec had hated her. It was the worst, most 
awful confession he never made, but he didn’t have to, because his sister 
had known all along. 

What she didn’t know—what he hadn’t told her when he should have— 
was that he didn’t hate her anymore. If he was telling his own deepest, 
darkest secret, he’d have told her that he hated himself far more than he 
ever hated her. 

And he’d liked himself more this past week than he had since the day 
she was born, and it was because he’d spent it plotting with her. 

“C’mon,” their mom said, and he could practically hear her squeezing 
Hazel’s shoulder. “This will blow over. These things always do. Let’s not let 
it ruin your birthday.” 

No. No! Alec tried to scream. Don’t leave me! I can’t move! 

But it was no use. No matter how loud the voice was in his head, he 
couldn’t push the sound from his throat. 

Panic was rising at the base of his skull, and he was beginning to wonder 
what would happen if nobody came back here to look for him. Would they 
simply go home without him? Would anyone even miss him? 

Alec stared hard into the now-green eyes of the bear and mustered every 
ounce of strength he could find in his core. It seemed to take everything he 
had, but suddenly, the bear before him was gone, hiding on the other side of 
Alec’s closed eyes. 

He’d figured out how to close his eyes. 

Good, now breathe. Just count to ten and keep breathing, he told 
himself. 

He pulled a deep breath in through his nose, out through his mouth, and 
repeated the exercise ten times, and just as he reached the tenth exhale, he 
felt the tips of his fingers twitch. 

He was so excited, he opened his eyes, and he was stunned to find 
himself very much alone behind the shelving unit. 

The bear was gone, its custom platform empty. 

Where ... ? 


But he didn’t have time to think about that now. He had just regained the 
tiniest bit of movement in his fingertips, and he wasn’t about to stop there. 
He closed his eyes once again and repeated the breathing, hoping it would 
do the trick again. Sure enough, as he reached ten, he found with great relief 
that he was able to wiggle his big toe. 

He repeated the exercise over and over, re-teaching his body how to 
move, and pretty soon, he could bend his knees and his elbows and even 
turn his head. 

The thumping in the bin behind him started up again, and he was 
suddenly furious that the sound returned now when it was too late to do him 
any good. 

Oh, shut up. 

Unfortunately, even though his limbs had begun to cooperate, his voice 
still hadn’t returned, nor had his ability to even open his mouth. 

No time to worry about that now, he thought. 

He was starting to feel his motor function come back online, perhaps a 
bit clumsily, but so long as he could eventually get himself to stand, that’s 
all that really mattered. Surely once his parents and Aunt Gigi saw him, 
they’d see he was in need of help. He simply had to get out of this back 
room. 

It seemed like he had to squeeze every muscle in his body in order to get 
his feet under him. He continued to close his eyes and breathe, taking 
encouragement from the small victories: leg bent, leg tucked, body 
balanced, other leg bent. And though it took forever, at long last, he 
managed to stand straight on two legs. 

The strangest thing, though, was that it almost seemed like he was still 
sitting. The shelf seemed so much higher than it had initially. In fact, the 
entire room looked bigger somehow, like the ceiling had risen. 

He moved stiffly at first, his legs jerking more than walking, and he had 
to work extraordinarily hard to get control of them, but after several steps 
and as many pauses, Alec managed to find a rhythm adequate enough to 
move him to the other end of the room. 

But when he came upon the door, he was stunned to find that he couldn’t 
reach the handle. It was at least a foot above his head. 

What? 


Using the same practice he’d employed to get his legs working, he 
closed his eyes and took several deep breaths, and eventually, he was able 
to raise his hands high enough over his head to wiggle the handle of the 
door. 

He pushed through the door after managing to nudge the handle enough 
to open it, and when he stumbled into the hallway, Alec again had to do a 
double take to make sure he was in the right place to find his way back out 
to the restaurant. 

The hallway was much longer than it had been before. It seemed almost 
endless, and he felt so small inside of it. 

But Alec pushed on. He only had to get back to the party room. He only 
had to make his way back to his family. They would know what was wrong. 
They would know how to help him. 

The end of the hallway was blocked by yet another door he’d 
remembered being much less of an obstacle. The handle was even higher 
here than it had been in the storage room, and no matter how high he 
stretched his arms into the air, he couldn’t reach the lever that would let him 
back into the restaurant. 

Don't panic, he told himself. Someone is bound to come back here at 
some point. 

He had to wait a lot longer than he thought he would. Slumped against 
the wall to the side of the door, Alec tried not to let his mind wander too far. 
He was afraid he’d slip back into the trance he’d somehow fallen into in the 
storage room. 

The way that bear had gotten into his head ... there was nothing natural 
about it. He wasn’t sure what or how, but something had happened to him, 
something horrible. 

He just hoped it wasn’t irreversible. 

He hoped a lot of what happened today could be reversed. 

All of a sudden, the door swung wide, nearly crushing Alec behind it, 
and he had to throw himself through the opening before the door slammed 
shut again. 

Nose on the floor of the Freddy Fazbear carpet, he was again surrounded 
by the piercing screams and jangling game bells of the arcade. 

The second Alec landed on the floor, he felt the wind knocked squarely 
out of him. 


“GOOOOAAAAAALLLL!” he heard someone call, and then he heard 
others laugh, but that was all as he soared through the air, still trying to find 
his breath. 

He landed with a painful thud, this time faceup and staring at the etched 
glass lampshades that covered each of the tables in the pizzeria. Feet 
pounded all around him, dangerously close to his head, and he winced as 
sneaker after sneaker narrowly missed squashing some part of him. 

Why is everyone acting like they don’t see me? 

No sooner had the thought occurred to him than he was grabbed roughly 
by the arm and clutched tightly into an itchy wool vest. 

“T saw it first!” said a voice, and suddenly, someone was tugging hard on 
his leg. 

“No, I called dibs!” said the kid holding him, and how big were these 
kids that they were able to play tug of war with him? 

“No me!” 

“Me!!” 

His leg was being pulled so hard, he was terrified it might come off any 
second. He wanted to go back to not being seen. 

Then, just as quickly as the tug of war had started, a voice in the distance 
yelled “Pizza’s here!” and he was again dropped onto the carpet. 

He lay there on his side trying to recover himself, but a stroller wheel 
wobbled straight for his head, and he squeezed his eyes shut as he awaited 
certain death. 

“Jacob, move that thing out of the way, would you?” said the person 
behind the stroller, and someone nudged Alec with their foot, wedging him 
against the baseboard. 

Move that thing? Alec thought, and if he weren’t so out-of-his-mind 
confused and in a fair amount of pain, he might have been offended. 

He managed to brace himself against the wall and get to his feet, but he 
was so wobbly, he wasn’t sure he’d be able to make it across the room 
without falling over. 

Still, he was determined. He had to make it back to the party room. He 
just had to make it back to his family. Surely they’d be looking for him by 
now, wouldn’t they? 

Alec wobbled and weaved across the eatery, dodging stomping feet and 
spilled colas, getting sprinkled with Parmesan and crushed peppers from 


tableside shakers. After several near-death experiences, Alec found his way 
to the other side of the cavernous room amid the throngs of kids and 
families. 

As he rounded the corner, he spied the enormous cylindrical tube that 
made up the Wind Tunnel, now dormant and awaiting the next birthday kid 
once Hazel’s party was over. 

Then there was his family—his mom in her dark jeans and his dad in his 
comfiest corduroy slacks and his flannel shirt, Aunt Gigi with her hair 
pulled back in her headband. 

And there was Hazel, her blonde ringlets hanging in front of her face but 
still not obscuring the smile that couldn’t help but light up the room. Her 
friends were leaning back in their chairs, rubbing their full bellies and 
rifling through goodie bags as they waited for their parents to pick them up. 

They all looked so happy. Hazel especially beamed. It was like someone 
had switched the light on inside of her again. She was all at once relieved of 
the burden Alec had placed on her by being ... himself. Except not the self 
he wanted to be, not anymore. He wanted to be the reason she would smile 
like that more often. He was ready. 

That’s when Alec saw that, in fact, he was the reason she was beaming. 

There, sitting across the table from his sister and their parents, was ... 
Alec. 

It was the same rumpled T-shirt he’d thrown on that morning before the 
party, the same ripped jeans. The same unruly golden curls that provided 
the counterbalance to Hazel’s perfect ringlets. It was his light-green eyes, 
his slightly crooked teeth, his lanky limbs. 

And he was smiling. Smiling right back at Hazel. 

Hey, Alec said, the voice in his head quiet at first, but quickly, it was 
screaming. 

Hey! That’s not me! That’s not me! 

But anyone looking at the kid across from Hazel would beg to differ. In 
every way, this person was most certainly him. Those questioning it might 
point to the fact that he wasn’t sulking like the Alec they knew. He wasn’t 
glowering at his sister the way he was known to do more often than not. 

But he had seemed to be making an effort all week to turn over a new 
leaf, hadn’t he? His parents had been trying this new technique, a method 


endorsed by a reputable doctor and best-selling author. Some kids just took 
longer to come into their own. 

Wasn’t it nice that Alec had managed to do just that, and on his sister’s 
birthday of all days? How sweet. How perfect. 

What a family they were turning out to be. 

Alec forced his stiff legs forward and tumbled into the party room, but 
he could barely see above the table when he got inside. He thought maybe 
he could try climbing one of the table legs, but it was too slick. 

He moved from kid to kid crowding around the table, doing whatever he 
could to attract the attention of just one of them. He had to get on top of that 
table. He had to look into his mom’s eyes. She’d have to recognize him 
then, wouldn’t she? Of course she would! 

Look down! Someone please just look down! His mind screamed, but just 
as before, his throat refused to release his pleas. 

It’s a bad dream. This has to be some crazy, elaborate nightmare. 

But it didn’t feel like a nightmare. In fact, nothing had ever felt more real 
in his entire fifteen years. 

He spied the girl called Charlotte sitting curled up in a chair in the 
corner, clutching her stomach. She was the only kid not talking to someone 
else. She was his best chance at attracting attention. 

But as he waved his arms to try and flag her interest, she turned suddenly 
and spewed all over his head, warm vomit dripping into his eyes and 
running down his face. 

“Oh! Oh no, Charlotte, honey, is your stomach still bothering you?” 

Alec could barely see through the puke pouring in rivers over his eyes, 
but the sound of his mom’s voice was such a relief. In a minute, this whole 
insane day would come to an end, and he’d be able to rejoin his family. 

“Oh, gross!” someone shouted, and to his horror, it was his own sister. 
“She puked on one of the bears!” 

Wait, what? 

“Hold on, I’ ll get one of the staff to come and clean it up,” their dad said. 

“Here, let me help,” Aunt Gigi said, and he watched from his periphery 
as beautiful, wonderful Aunt Gigi hurried to his comer of the room. 

Thank you, he whimpered in his head. His aunt Gigi would know what to 
do. 


But instead of coming to Alec’s aid, Aunt Gigi gently pulled Charlotte 
from her chair and sat her on the bench closer to Hazel and the fake Alec, 
who passed napkins to her so she could clean herself up. 

“Have some water,” Hazel said, offering her a cup. 

“Here, you got some in your hair,” the fake Alec said. 

Then he turned to Alec. His eyes—his stolen green eyes in his stolen 
body—gleamed at Alec as he stood in the corner, dripping in vomit, 
watching his family welcome him into their fold. 

And then the fake Alec smiled. 

“Yes, just over here. Sorry. I think we ruined one of your bears,” Alec 
heard his dad say from outside of the room, and just then, a Freddy’s 
employee arrived with a mop and bucket. 

“Not a problem, sir. We’ll take care of this mess. You just go back to 
enjoying your party.” 

And with that, Alec was tossed into a bucket and rolled away, his vision 
still obscured, but not too much that he didn’t see the fake Alec wink at him 
from the table before returning his attention to a smiling, laughing Hazel 
with her smiling, happy family. 

In the bucket, Alec was quickly rolled to the back of the pizzeria once 
again, the doors he’d worked so hard to move thrust open and shut with 
ease by the employee. He made a quick stop in the men’s room, where he 
shoved the wheeled bucket and mop into the corner and rung out the rag in 
the maintenance sink before slopping it over the side of the bucket, flecking 
the mirror beside them with large droplets of water. 

Alec turned slowly to the mirror he only then realized he was parked 
beside. 

There in the reflection stared a blue-eyed, two-foot Freddy Fazbear, its 
hair matted and starting to crust over with puke, its arms extended and 
ready for a hug. 

This can't be. This can’t possibly be. 

But Alec had no time to contemplate what it was and what it wasn’t. 
Before he knew it, they were on the move again. 

The employee pinched Alec’s paw between two fingers. 

“Yick,” he said, scrunching up his nose before holding Alec as far in 
front of him as he could. “Into the bin for you,” he said. 


He kicked open the men’s room door and traveled quickly down the hall 
to the storage room Alec had escaped to earlier. 

Wait, he tried to say. Wait! 

But as ever, it was no use. 

The employee pulled a collection of keys from a retractable cord on his 
belt loop as he made his way to the very back of the storage room toward a 
familiar, large green Dumpster. 

“Which one is it?” he muttered to himself before landing on the right 
one. “Aha! Here it is.” 

Then the employee stuck the key in the padlock over the bin’s lid, and 
with a sharp turn to the left, the padlock sprang open. 

“Have fun with your little buddies!” he said, and released his pinch on 
Alec’s paw, sending him falling through the air and into the bin. 

The light from the room illuminated his surroundings in the bin long 
enough for Alec to see why it hadn’t hurt when he fell in. His fall had been 
broken by dozens of plush bears that looked exactly like him. 

Dozens of discarded Lonely Freddys. 

“Nighty night,” the employee said, and just like that, the light above him 
extinguished with the closing and locking of the lid. 

Panic seeped into Alec’s pores ... or what might have once been pores. 

In his head, he screamed and he screamed. But in the end, the only sound 
that crept from his unhinged, stuffed bear mouth was the tiniest squeak. 

“Help!” he thought he heard himself say. 

Then he realized it hadn’t been him at all. It had been the bear beside 
him in the bin. 

Then it was the bear on the other side of him. 

Pretty soon, it was every bear in the bin, their thin, muted screams for 
help swallowed by the metal and darkness that entombed them. Alec and 
his new friends. 

Dozens of the lonely ones. 


t was just like Oscar to be on the losing end of the deal. 
It had always been that way, from the time his dad went to the 
pital for a tonsillectomy and contracted a fatal infection, to the time that 
they had to move to the cheaper end of town, to all the times Oscar had to 
help his mom at the Royal Oaks Nursing Home while the rest of his friends 
spent their allowances at the mall. 

So it was no surprise to Oscar when he learned that the Plushtrap Chaser 
—a light-activated chomping green rabbit, and by far Oscar’s favorite 
character from the Freddy Fazbear world—would go on sale on the most 
ridiculous day, at the most ridiculous time imaginable. 

“Friday morning. Friday morning!” Oscar steamed. 

“Man, you’ve gotta get over it,” said Raj, kicking the same stone down 
the sidewalk he’d been torturing the entire way to school. 

“But the injustice of it!” Oscar said. “It’s a kids’ toy. Why would it go on 
sale when every kid in the known universe is in school?” 

Oscar swatted at a low-hanging tree branch like it wronged him. 

“Did you hear Dwight already got one?” Isaac asked, bringing up the 
rear. 

“What?” Raj stopped for a minute, now adequately outraged. “He hadn’t 
even heard of Freddy Fazbear before last year!” 

“Apparently his dad ‘made a call.’ His dad’s always ‘making a call,’ ” 
pouted Isaac. 

“Dwight’s a jerk,” said Raj, and on this, the boys all agreed. It was so 
much easier to hate Dwight than to admit they weren’t the types who had 
dads who could make calls to get ugly green rabbits that stood the height of 
a toddler and maintained the speed of an actual rabbit. 

“We’ll never get it, not if we have to wait until four o’clock,” Isaac said. 

“We could—” Oscar started, but Raj cut him off. 

“No, we can’t,” he said. 

“How do you—?” 

“We can’t ditch.” 

“Maybe I—” 


“It’s not possible. I have two strikes already. One more, and my mom’s 
going to send me to boot camp.” 

“C’mon, she wasn’t serious about that,” Oscar said. 

“You don’t know my mom,” said Raj. “One time, my sister talked back 
to her, and my mom wouldn’t let her talk for a week.” 

“That didn’t actually happen,” Isaac chuckled. 

“Oh no? Ask Avni. She says by the sixth day, it’s like she forgot how to 
talk at all.” 

Raj looked in the distance, haunted by the specter of his mother while 
Oscar turned to Isaac. 

“Don’t look at me. I have to walk Jordan home.” 

Oscar knew he couldn’t argue with that one. Even as little brothers go, 
Jordan was okay, and Oscar knew for a fact that Isaac’s mom would go 
nuclear if he even thought about leaving Jordan alone until she got home 
from work at three o’clock. 

There was no getting around it. Despite all of Oscar’s big ideas, he knew 
he was too afraid to actually go through with it. Ditching school was like a 
mortal sin to his mom, who’d fought hard for her own education while 
raising Oscar by herself. 

Oscar and his friends would have to wait until four o’clock. 

The day was agonizingly long. Mr. Tallis made the entire class recite the 
preamble of the Constitution over and over until they got it right. Ms. Davni 
popped a completely unfair quiz on isotopes. Coach Riggins made them run 
laps around the field even though it was still muddy from the last rain. 
Oscar thought maybe he’d never faced a more miserable day. 

Then at 2:33, it got worse. 

Two minutes before the final bell rang, Oscar was called to the front 
office. 

“Now?” he pleaded with Mr. Enriquez. 

His geometry teacher shrugged, helpless to bail Oscar out, despite his 
being Oscar’s favorite teacher. 

“Sorry, Mr. Avila. Nobody ever said sophomore year was cruelty free.” 

He turned to Raj and Isaac in the only class they’d ever shared since they 
met on the playground in the third grade. 

Mustering all his strength, he tried not to choke on his sacrificial 
offering: “Wait for me until three thirty. If I’m not back by then ...” 


The whole class sat in witness. 

“_.. then go without me.” 

Raj and Isaac nodded solemnly, and Oscar scooped up his notebooks and 
bag and cast one last glance at Mr. Enriquez. 

“Tt’s your mom,” he murmured, patting Oscar firmly on the shoulder. Mr. 
Enriquez knew Oscar’s mom sometimes needed Oscar’s help at the Royal 
Oaks Nursing Home. He didn’t know exactly what his mom’s job was, but 
it had something to do with making sure the whole place didn’t come 
undone. His mom was important. 

The secretary at the front desk was waiting impatiently for Oscar, the 
receiver already in hand. 

“Thought you got lost,” she said humorlessly. “Does your mom know 
this is why most parents get their kids cell phones?” 

Oscar bared his teeth into something simulating a smile. “I think she just 
likes hearing your voice on the regular,” he said, and the secretary matched 
his smile. “Besides, phones aren’t allowed at school.” 

Not that we can afford one, he thought, not without a little venom toward 
the secretary. 

Oscar took the phone from her hand fast because she looked like she was 
about to smack him with it. 

“LM, Mr. Devereaux isn’t doing well today,” Oscar’s mom said. His 
mom only used his nickname, “LM,” code for “Little Man,” when her need 
was dire. 

Not this. Not today. Mr. Devereaux was possibly the world’s oldest man, 
and when he was out of sorts, there were only a few people who could 
reason with him enough to get him to take his meds or eat something. For 
some inexplicable reason, Oscar was one of those people. 

“Where’s Connie?” Oscar whined, referencing the only orderly to whom 
Mr. Devereaux responded. 

“Puerta Vallarta, where I should be,” his mom said. “Besides, he’s asking 
for you.” 

Oscar handed the phone back to the secretary, who already had her purse 
in hand as she tapped her white-tipped fingernail on the counter between 
them. 

“T trust you’ve resolved your crisis? I have to get to the Toy Box before 
they sell out of Plushtraps. I have five nephews.” 


It was almost too much for Oscar to bear. Five fewer Plushtraps after 
Ms. Bestly (Ms. Beastly in his head) snagged whatever might be left for her 
undeserving nephews. Oscar dragged his feet in misery all the way to the 
number 12 city bus, transferred to the 56 line, and walked the quarter mile 
from the bus stop to his mom’s work, moping into the lobby of the Royal 
Oaks Nursing Home. 

Irvin, seated at the reception desk, nodded to him from under his 
headphones. 

“Dude’s in a bad way, big man!” Irvin said loudly, his volume unchecked 
by the deep baseline emanating from his playlist. “He says Marilyn wants to 
steal his soul!” 

Oscar nodded. Irvin was well-versed in the oddities of Royal Oaks, 
including Mr. Devereaux’s chronic, baseless paranoia. Hearing Irvin 
confirm what his mom had already told him on the phone did nothing to 
alter Oscar’s position of unconditional surrender. He would be here all 
afternoon, likely into the evening, trying to calm Mr. Devereaux. The 
Plushtrap Chaser, if he’d ever had a chance at getting it in the first place, 
would never be his now. 

The automatic doors whooshed open, revealing the back of his mom’s 
tall figure. She handed a clipboard back to an orderly Oscar hadn’t met 
before. This place went through orderlies like Oscar went through Electric 
Blue Fruit Punch. 

“Make sure Ms. Delia doesn’t get any dairy after four p.m.,” his mom 
said. “She’ll fart so much, we’ll have to quarantine the room, and I promise 
you, I’Il make sure you’re the only one assigned to that wing for the entire 
night.” 

The new orderly nodded earnestly, clearly shaken, and hurried away with 
the clipboard just as Oscar’s mom turned to smile at him, arms extended. 
That was the thing about his mom—she could always be counted on for a 
hug strong enough to crack ribs. Even the time she threatened to put a 
bounty on Oscar’s head after he “rescued” a bat and set it free in the house, 
she still managed to hug him hard enough to make him sore the next day. 

“Mr. Devereaux thinks Marilyn—” 

“—_wants to steal his soul. I heard,” Oscar said. 

“After eighteen years, you’d think Marilyn had earned the benefit of the 
doubt.” 


“No rest for the truly suspicious,” Oscar said, and his mom smiled at 
him. 

“Thank you, Little Man. You are my angel.” 

“Mom,” he said, looking around to make sure no one heard, even though 
the only ones who would give him a hard time were miles away at the Toy 
Box, claiming the very last Plushtrap no doubt. The thought of Raj and 
Isaac lining them up for epic, chomping battles in the yard was pure agony. 

Oscar began to think about compromises. Maybe if he gave Raj or Isaac 
half the amount, one of them could be persuaded to let him take partial 
Plushtrap custody. 

Oscar managed a weak smile at his mom and wondered if the fates might 
bestow upon him a Plushtrap if they witnessed his angelic behavior. He 
knew better than to hope, though. 

When he arrived in Mr. Devereaux’s doorway, he found the old man 
staring into the corner of his room, his eyes trained like lasers ready to 
vaporize. 

“Tt’s started,” Mr. Devereaux said, his voice barely above a whisper. 

“What’s started?” Oscar asked, not so much curious as eager to begin 
this process. 

“She’s been plotting this whole time. I should have known. She waited 
until I let my guard down.” 

“C’mon, Mr. D., you don’t really believe that.” 

“T can feel my soul slipping away. It’s oozing out of my pores, Oscar.” 

Mr. Devereaux didn’t sound afraid; rather, he seemed resigned to his 
fate, and Oscar thought maybe they had something in common today. 

“But why would she do that?” Oscar asked. “She loves you. She’s shared 
your room every night for almost two decades. Don’t you think if she 
wanted your soul, she would have taken it by now?” 

“Trust cannot be rushed, young man,” Mr. Devereaux said. “Good 
fortune cannot be predicted.” 

It was these seeds of wisdom that kept Oscar interested in Royal Oaks’s 
longest-term resident. No matter how many times Mr. Devereaux let some 
sage observation slip, Oscar was surprised every time, like Mr. Devereaux 
could sense what was occupying Oscar’s mind ... even if Mr. Devereaux’s 
own mind was like a sieve, his thoughts slipping through holes into some 
bottomless abyss. 


“Maybe Marilyn isn’t stealing your soul. Maybe she’s guarding it. You 
know, like holding it for safekeeping,” Oscar posited. 

Mr. Devereaux shook his head. “I thought of that. It’s a tempting theory 

.. but she should have asked permission.” 

These are the times when Oscar struggled, when logic had to win. 

“T mean, it’s not like she can actually ask you,” he said. 

“Of course she can!” Mr. Devereaux raged, and Oscar put up his hands, 
trying to ease Mr. Devereaux before the new orderly came scurrying around 
the comer. 

“Okay, but just stick with me for a minute, Mr. D.,” Oscar said, sneaking 
two steps into Mr. Devereaux’s room. “Maybe she thought, you know, since 
you were close enough, that you wouldn’t mind if she ... uh ... borrowed 
your soul for a bit—” 

Mr. Devereaux cut his eyes toward Oscar, suspicious. 

“She didn’t tell you to say that, did she?” 

“No! No no no of course not. No one could come close to the, er, 
relationship you have.” 

Mr. Devereaux looked into the corner of the room that had held his 
attention until that moment. 

“Well, Marilyn, what’d’ya have to say for yourself?” 

Oscar followed Mr. Devereaux’s stare, and now they were both staring at 
the same ancient calico cat who had slept on the pillow by the window of 
Mr. Devereaux’s room for as long as Mr. Devereux had slept in his own 
bed. She didn’t come here with Mr. Devereaux, at least according to legend. 
She’d been a neighborhood stray. But one day, the staff found her in the 
room, and without objection from the rotating cast of residents, Marilyn had 
remained, finding Mr. Devereaux’s company the most pleasing, despite his 
periodic disdain or downright hatred. No amount of scratching behind the 
ears or catnip offerings by anyone else could entice her away from Mr. 
Devereaux. 

Maybe she really was after his soul. 

Marilyn blinked her slow cat blink at Mr. Devereaux. 

“Well, I think we both know what that means,” Oscar improvised, and 
for a second, Mr. Devereaux looked confused, but after another moment of 
contemplation over the loud purring of Marilyn, something inside him 
settled. 


“All right then. It seems Marilyn owes you yet another debt of gratitude, 
young man.” 

Marilyn stretched languidly on her chair and yawned, but Oscar wasn’t 
looking for gratitude from a cat. He was looking for a way out. 

“Sit down, young man, sit down,” Mr. Devereaux said, and Oscar let the 
last of his hope slip away. This was to be his entire afternoon. 

Oscar slumped in the chair closest to the door. Mr. Devereaux stared at 
him with the watery eyes of an old man. 

“My soul may be in trouble,” he said, “but your heart is stolen.” 

Oscar tried to laugh. If he didn’t, he might cry. It was just the latest in 
what was panning out to be a lifetime of almost. He had almost made 
Varsity baseball, but he dislocated his elbow. He had almost saved enough 
for a cell phone, but someone picked his pocket on the train. He had almost 
had a whole family, but then he lost his dad. 

If you could earn a trophy for almost, he’d probably fall just shy of the 
honor. 

“Ah yes,” Mr. Devereaux continued. “Love is a many splendored thing 
... until it crushes you to pieces.” 

“Tt’s not like that,” Oscar said. It was ridiculous to set the record straight; 
Mr. Devereaux might or might not even remember this conversation. But he 
needed someone to know, needed someone to confide in, and truly he had 
never known a better listener than this man whom he had never once seen 
standing, whose first name he didn’t even know. 

“Tt’s ... Just this stupid toy,” Oscar said, but even as he tried to diminish 
the Plushtrap, he felt his heart squeeze. 

“Tt broke?” Mr. Devereaux said. 

“Tt was never even mine,” said Oscar, and Mr. Devereaux nodded slowly. 
Marilyn began the long practice of cleaning herself. 

“And I take it the toy will never be yours?” Mr. Devereaux said. 

Oscar felt ridiculous hearing it in those terms, hardly something that 
should be causing a twelve-year-old to despair. 

“Tt’s not even that special,” Oscar lied. 

“Ah, but the toy is only the stem that breaks ground,” Mr. Devereaux 
said, and Oscar looked up from his feet to stare into the old man’s eyes. He 
might have been slipping into one of his lapses. 

But Oscar was surprised to see Mr. Devereaux looking right at him. 


“The reason for the wanting is what lies underneath. It’s the soil that 
feeds the want.” 

Mr. Devereaux leaned a little closer to Oscar, pressing his veiny arm 
against the guard rail enough to make Oscar nervous. 

“T think you have tilled quite a lot of soil in your handful of years on this 
earth,” he said. “So much wanting ... but you’ve never been able to pluck 
the fruits of your labor from the ground, have you?” 

Oscar was never any good at growing things. He killed every plant he 
tried to water, every fish he tried to nurture. 

“T don’t think you know—” he started, but Mr. Devereaux didn’t let him 
finish. 

“The best cultivators are the ones who know when the right time is to 
pick the crop,” he said, and Oscar was trying, he really was, but Mr. 
Devereaux was losing him fast. 

“Mr. D., you’re real nice to try—” 

“Ugh,” Mr. Devereaux groaned like something hurt. He leaned away 
from his position against the rail and arched his back. Oscar could hear 
something pop deep inside the man’s rickety bones. Marilyn paused her 
bath long enough to make sure Mr. Devereaux was okay. 

“A grower, maybe, but a thinker you’re not,” Mr. Devereaux said to 
Oscar. “Sometimes you have to know when to go for it, even when it 
doesn’t look possible.” 

Oscar stared at Mr. Devereaux. 

“Quit sitting here and go find your precious toy!” Mr. Devereaux yelled, 
his phlegmy throat catching on the words, and he began to hack. Marilyn 
wound herself into a tight ball on her chair. 

The new orderly appeared out of nowhere, standing in the doorway but 
reluctant to walk any closer. 

“Is everything all right in here, Mr. Dev—?” 

“No, everything is not all right, you daft ferret! Go and get me a glass of 
water, for the love of ...” 

The orderly scurried away, but Oscar couldn’t seem to get up from his 
chair. He was frozen in place, contemplating the prophecy he’d received in 
a haze of cat hair and disinfectant. 

“What? You don’t think she looks like a ferret? No one should have a 
face that small,” Mr. Devereaux said to Oscar. 


“But what if it’s sold out everywhere?” Oscar said, his brain finally 
coming back online. 

“Don’t you young people have the Internet? Or your computer phones or 
i-whatzits? Somebody has the stupid toy somewhere,” said Mr. Devereaux, 
coughing up a little more phlegm. “The point is, quit tilling. It’s time to 
pick.” 

The orderly returned with a small yellow cup, and Mr. Devereaux took it 
from her roughly before turning on his side, his back to her and to Oscar. 
Marilyn poked an ear up to be sure all was well before resettling into her 
coil. 

In the space of five seconds, Mr. Devereaux was snoring loudly, his ribs 
rising and falling inside his threadbare pajamas. 

“Looks like you tuckered him out,” the orderly said to Oscar as they 
shuffled out the door, closing it behind them. “You’re my hero.” 

Oscar felt dizzy by the time he made his way back to the front desk. His 
mom was hustling down the hall with three orderlies in tow, each following 
her like ducklings struggling to keep up. 

“You’re a good soul,” his mom said to Oscar without looking up from 
her clipboard. Oscar knew she meant it, though. She was just busy. 

“He calls the new orderly a ferret,” Oscar said. 

His mom shrugged and mumbled something about a small face. 

“Anyway, I told Raj and Isaac I’d meet up with them,” Oscar said, 
slinging his backpack over his shoulder. 

“Oh? Anything fun happening?” she asked, still absorbed in her 
paperwork. One of the orderlies was trying to get her attention. 

Oscar stared at the top of his mom’s head, the gray streak that ran from 
her cowlick to her crown suddenly looking larger, like age had poured over 
her head while she slept one night. 

“Nah,” he said. “Nothing special.” 

She cupped his chin gently in her palm, finally looking up, and Oscar 
smiled back because she was always trying her hardest. She always had. 

He turned on his heel toward the doors. 

“Oh, Oscar, can you pick up some yog—?” 

“Sorry, Mom! Gotta run!” Oscar said as he fled the lobby and returned to 
the safety of the vestibule. He was almost out the door when Irvin, still 
bobbing his head to whatever played in his ears, yelled over the music. 


“You got a message!” he said. 

“Huh?” said Oscar. 

“What?” said Irvin, then pulled his headphones around his neck. “You 
got a message. From the short one, what’s his name? Isaac.” 

“He called here for me?” Oscar said, utterly confused. He couldn’t 
remember a single time his friends had ever tried reaching him here, even 
though it seemed like he spent just as much time at Royal Oaks as he did in 
his own home. If anything, sometimes Raj or Isaac would wait for Oscar to 
finish helping his mom, wasting time in the vestibule while Irvin ignored 
them. 

“Said you gotta meet them at the mall. Something about a trap,” Irvin 
said. 

“The mall? Not the Toy Box? Wait, when did they call??” Oscar 
demanded, which got Irvin’s attention. 

“Well, let me just check the messaging service,” he said, reaching for an 
imaginary memo pad. 

“Sorry, it’s just—” 

“Ten minutes maybe,” Irvin said, softening. 

Ten minutes. If it took him twenty on the bus, another ten to walk from 
the bus stop to the mall, there might still be time to get there before they 
close. 

“T gotta go!” 

“Have fun ... meh, whatever,” Irvin said as he pulled his headphones 
back over his ears, the doors already swishing closed behind Oscar. 

Oscar danced around the bus stop like he had to pee, leaning off the 
sidewalk into the street to see if he could spot the marquee on every passing 
bus. Drivers honked him out of the way, but he barely noticed them. 

Finally, the number 56 bus arrived, slowing to an agonizingly long stop 
and sighing down to meet the curb. It was standing room only, and Oscar 
felt irrational fury toward anyone who dared to pull the stop cord. It seemed 
there wasn’t a two-block stretch where they didn’t stop to let someone on or 
off, and Oscar was about to burst with impatience. 

When the mall stop finally came, he was so eager to get off, he nearly 
forgot to pull the cord for himself. 

“Whoa whoa, here!” he yelled up to the driver, who grumbled something 
about not being his personal chauffer. Oscar hollered a quick apology over 


his shoulder as he booked it through the thick grove of eucalyptus trees that 
were definitely someone’s private property to get to the mall’s east 
entrance, the closest one to the Emporium. 

The Emporium had nearly closed three different times, always on the 
verge of bankruptcy, always rescued at the last minute by some mystery 
financier who, according to chipper new anchors on the evening broadcast, 
couldn’t bear to see another independent business succumb to one of the big 
chain toy stores. It might have been an act of charity if the Emporium 
hadn’t been so gross. 

Oscar was pretty sure the place had never been mopped. Mystery 
splatters lined the baseboards all around the cavernous store, not a single 
stain ever moving from where it had made its home. Oscar himself had 
made one of those stains when he was eleven, puking up an entire Radiation 
Green Big Slurp right in front of the beach ball display. Though he tried not 
to look, every time he went into the Emporium, he saw the telltale green 
flecks that had never been thoroughly scrubbed from the back wall. 

The store seemed to always be half lit, the fluorescent lights high above 
buzzing and flickering like they resented being on. But maybe the most 
depressing part of the Emporium was its perpetually unstocked shelves. 
They’d carry maybe a handful of the really good toys everyone was 
clamoring for that year, but the rest of the cavernous store was occupied by 
half-emptied displays of dusty generic dolls, action figures, and play sets 
that the parents who were too late or too broke had to resort to. Oscar knew 
for a fact his mom had stopped into the Emporium more than a few times, 
always at the end of her nightly shift, looking for the closest facsimile to a 
brand-name toy her small paycheck could buy. Oscar never let her see his 
disappointment. 

But the Emporium was the only toy shop located in the mall; all the rest 
in town were the big stand-alone stores. If Isaac was telling him to meet 
them there, they must know something that everyone else in the entire town 
didn’t. 

Only that didn’t seem to be the case once Oscar opened the door to the 
east entrance. Even from far away, he could see a squirming line of people 
trying to squeeze into the Emporium. It was more foot traffic than the store 
probably saw in a year. 


Oscar slowed to a walk as he approached the crowd with caution, so 
unnerved by the sight of that many people pushing to get into the 
Emporium of all places. 

Sure enough, there at the register by the door, a single petrified teenager 
was failing spectacularly at urging people to be patient. Poor guy probably 
had zero idea of what he was walking into that day for his shift. 

“Oscar!” 

Oscar searched for Isaac in the crowd, but as Irvin had reminded him 
less than an hour before, Isaac was the short one. He was hard enough to 
find in a crowd half this size. 

“Over here!” 

That time, it was Raj, and finally, after sweeping the jostling crowd three 
times, Oscar spotted his friend jumping above the surrounding heads. He 
wasn’t all that far from the front of the line, which had to mean they 
somehow got the inside track on the inventory. 

Oscar squeezed his way past a gaggle of angry customers. 

“Hey, there’s a system here, kid,” one guy growled, and Oscar had to 
hide his laugh because ... really? This was a system? 

Oscar ducked a couple more grumbles before finally reaching Raj and 
Isaac, the latter on tiptoe trying to see how far they were to the front. 

“Dude, we tried the Toy Box, Marbles, and that place on Twenty-Third 
and San Juan,” said Raj, skipping right to the point. 

“We even went to that weird organic place on Fifth Street that only sells 
wooden toys,” said Isaac. 

“Tf they ever had it at all, they sold out in like five minutes,” said Raj. 

“But the Emporium has them?” Oscar asked, still in disbelief. He hadn’t 
actually seen anyone leave with one, and seeing was believing. 

“Not on the shelves,” Raj said, getting to the good part. “We saw Thad 
outside of Rockets, and he was holding this big Emporium bag, so we knew 
something had to be up. He didn’t want to, but he showed us.” 

“Well, he showed us the top of the box, but he definitely had one. He 
was all smug about it,” said Isaac. “I guess his sister’s dating the assistant 
manager here, and he said they got a small stock of ’em, but the manager 
wasn’t putting them on the shelf.” 

“Probably wanted to sell them himself online,” Raj said. “Jerk.” 


“Guess word got out,” Oscar said, watching the crowd watch everyone 
else. No one wanted to be the first in line to hear “We just sold the last 
one.” 

The crowd surged suddenly, knocking the entire quasi-line forward, and 
a general rumble of protest burbled from the customers. 

Isaac fell against Oscar, who fell against the lady in front of him, who 
complained louder than the rest. 

“Excuse me,” she said, only half turning to shoot Oscar a dirty look. 

The secretary. Ms. Beastly. The one with five nephews. 

“Oh no,” Oscar whispered. “She’s gonna clean them out!” he hissed to 
Raj and Isaac. 

“She can’t. Limit’s one per customer,” said Raj. “Don’t worry, I’ve got a 
good feeling.” 

“Oh well, if you have a feeling,” Oscar rolled his eyes, but secretly he 
was grateful for Raj’s optimism. It’s not like Oscar had any of his own to 
offer. Mr. Devereaux’s pep talk about harvesting was a distant memory. 

After an entire eon had passed, the line crawled forward, and the 
secretary from the boys’ school was next. 

“What do you mean limit one per person?” 

“Sorry, ma’am, that’s the rule,” said the clerk, looking like he was maybe 
seconds from a meltdown. 

“Whose rule?” 

“My manager’s, ma’am,” he said, and the line behind them sighed 
loudly. 

“Haven’t you been listening, lady? He’s said it a hundred times already,” 
groaned one guy unlucky enough to still be squeezed against the shelf 
closest to the door. 

“Well, what am I supposed to tell my nephews?” Ms. Beastly asked, 
matching the guy’s grumpiness. 

“How about you tell them, oh, I don’t know, that the limit was one per 
person!” the guy said, and Oscar had to admire his spunk. No one at school 
dared to talk to the secretary that way. 

“Ma’am,” the clerk interrupted, “I can sell you one, but you’ll have to 
move along.” 

The secretary gave him a look that Oscar was pretty sure could melt 
human brains. 


“T mean, uh, if it’s okay?” he said, but it was too late. He was already 
liquefying. 

Ms. Beastly slammed her giant purse on the counter and huffed her way 
through counting out her cash, then exchanged it for one glorious Plushtrap 
Chaser. 

It was the first time Oscar had actually seen one in the flesh ... or 
stuffing, or whatever. 

Even from behind the cellophane window of the box, the thing looked 
perfectly terrifying. Its plastic eyes bulged from even wider eye sockets, 
making the face look skeletal. The mouth hung open to reveal lines of 
unsettlingly pointed canine-looking teeth. With the toy standing almost 
three feet tall, the clerk had to stand on tiptoe to get the box over the 
counter and into the secretary’s grasping hands, and she shooed away the 
plastic bag he offered, decidedly done with this entire transaction. She 
walked away in a huff, dozens of eyes following her purchase out the door 
before returning their attention to the keeper of the treasure. 

The crowd surged forward, but it wasn’t necessary. Oscar, Raj, and Isaac 
were practically crawling over the counter. 

“One Plushtrap Chaser, please!” Oscar said breathlessly. “If there’s only 
one left, we can split it.” The boys shoved their hands into their pockets to 
pool their money, a compromise they hadn’t even needed to discuss. If one 
Plushtrap was all they could get, then they’d just have to share it—all for 
one and all that. They understood how scarcity worked. 

“Sorry,” the guy behind the counter said, but he didn’t look sorry so 
much as terrified. 

“What do you mean ‘sorry’? ” Oscar said, but on some level he already 
knew. 

“No ... nhonononononono,” Isaac shook his head. “Don’t say it.” 

The clerk swallowed, his Adam’s apple traveling up and down his neck. 

“We’re ... sold out.” 

The crowd erupted in protest, and whether it was conscious or not, the 
clerk gripped the counter like he expected the floor to fall out from under 
him. 

“Tt can’t be,” Raj said, but Oscar could barely hear him over the roar of 
angry customers. He looked at Oscar like he was begging him to lie and tell 


him it was all just a joke. There was enough for them. They wouldn’t walk 
away empty-handed. 

It couldn’t possibly be that Oscar had come so far for another almost. 

But Oscar looked at the petrified face of the clerk. What reason would he 
have for lying now? More than that, what reason would he have for 
angering a crowd already on the brink of revolt? 

The seed of disappointment was sprouting its roots in Oscar’s stomach 
as the scene before him played out in slow motion. He pictured himself 
walking away with Raj and Isaac, circling the mall and dragging their feet 
back to the bus stop, unable to find the words to express this particular 
brand of letdown. Unable to describe how it wasn’t the Plushtrap Chaser, 
not really. It was the confirmation that people like him weren’t meant to 
hope for things. 

While the clerk stood with his hands up, like his trembling palms could 
somehow comfort the angry masses, Oscar drifted to the side of the counter 
and tried to process yet another disappointment. He felt cut off from the 
scene around him ... until a few intriguing words lured his attention away 
from the crowd’s raucous protests and the clerk’s weak responses. 

“... call ... police,” a woman’s voice said. 

“Who ... processed ... return?” a gruff man’s voice demanded. 

“... real,” a squeaky teenager’s voice said. 

“ ,. human?” the woman asked. 

Oscar inched past the counter and peered around a few stacks of 
cardboard boxes. Just beyond the boxes, three employees clustered around 
something Oscar couldn’t see. 

Though their backs were mostly to Oscar, he was far enough from the 
crowd now that he could hear the employees discussing whatever it was 
they were looking at. 

“No doubt about it. They look ... real,” said a teenaged staffer as he 
hunched over the thing. 

“They’re sure not from the manufacturer,” said a man gruffly, who Oscar 
guessed to be the greedy manager, judging by his authoritative tone. 

“How do you know?” asked a third employee, her low ponytail slung 
over her shoulder as she knelt beside the teenagers. “Did anyone look at this 
one before it was sold?” 

“Someone would have noticed, wouldn’t they?” the teenager asked. 


“T still think we should call the police,” the woman in the ponytail said, 
her voice lowering so that Oscar had to strain to hear her. 

“And say what?” said the teenager. “ ‘Hey, we think we’ve got a 
situation here. See, someone returned a toy and, funny story, now the toy 
looks too lifelike! Help, officer, help!’ ” 

“Keep your voice down!” scolded the maybe-manager. 

“T mean, they can’t actually be real, can they?” the woman asked. 

The other two said nothing, and as though on cue, all three stepped away 
from the thing they were crowding around, and Oscar could finally see what 
they were examining. 

There, on top of a small worktable, sat a mangled box that looked like it 
had been rescued from a trash compactor. Its cellophane window was dingy, 
with white crease marks spread like veins across the front. The corners of 
the box were soft and worn, and the top flap was held together by a fuzzy 
strip of packing tape. But even through all this damage, Oscar could see a 
green head and bulging eyes. 

A Plushtrap Chaser! 

Beyond Oscar, the crowd’s unhappiness crescendoed into a roar, and the 
clerk suddenly appeared behind the boxes. He didn’t notice Oscar. He was 
too panicked. 

“Help!” the clerk shouted at the other employees. “They’re about to 
revolt!” 

Before they turned, Oscar slipped back around the boxes. No longer 
eavesdropping on the employees, he ran to his friends, who were still 
pressed against the counter. 

The woman appeared beside the register and the panicked clerk. Her 
name tag said she was “Tonya, Assistant Manager.” 

“T’m very sorry,” Tonya called out, “but the Plushtrap toy is now out of 
stock.” 

“No, it isn’t,” Oscar said, too quietly at first, and he was impossible to 
hear over the tumultuous crowd. 

When Tonya didn’t respond, he shouted, “Hey!” 

She turned to him, her dark eyes intense. “What?” she snapped. 

“You have one back there,” Oscar said. Maybe he accused. He pointed to 
where he knew the Plushtrap Chaser was behind the stacks of boxes. 


Tonya shot another look at the crowd, then glanced in the direction 
Oscar was pointing. She stared that way a little too long, then looked at 
Oscar like they were suddenly the only two people in the store. 

“That one’s damaged,” she said. 

“Tt looks fine to me,” Oscar lied, pressing his luck. He wasn’t sure what 
Tonya and the other employees had been talking about, but he was smart 
enough to know something weird happened to the returned Plushtrap 
Chaser. He didn’t care, though. His need for the toy was all-consuming. 

“Tt’s not fine, kid. It’s ... um, defective,” Tonya crossed her arms. “Trust 
me, you don’t want that one.” 

“But—” 

“Tt’s not for sale!” Tonya said through gritted teeth before yelling into 
the crowd, “Folks, I’m sorry, okay? I’m sure we’ll get some more at some 
point!” 

Then she grumbled to himself, “We’d better.” 

“When will that be?” demanded a woman in a shirt that said KEEP CALM 
AND DANCE ON. 

“T don’t—” 

“What am I supposed to tell my daughter?” a guy in a suit and tie asked. 

“Sir, you must—” 

“Your clerk said you had Plushtraps for everyone!” hollered a lady so 
close to Oscar, his ear rang with her shrill echo. 

“T doubt he said—” 

The crowd was on the verge of mutiny, but Oscar barely registered them. 

“Dude, we’d better get out of here,” Isaac said. 

“No joke,” said Raj. “My mom dragged me to some sale on bedsheets 
once. When they ran out, I actually saw this one lady bite someone. They 
were out for blood.” 

Isaac looked at Raj in horror. “I don’t want to get bit.” 

But Oscar was still only half listening. 

“T don’t care if it’s damaged. I’ll buy it anyway,” he said to Tonya, but 
the crowd was too loud for her to hear him. She was unwinding the cord on 
the intercom. 

“People, please calm down!” she yelled into the microphone as feedback 
pierced the air, making everyone pause for a moment to cover their ears. 
But that only seemed to rile them up more, and soon customers were 


shoving and flooding the store, tearing toys off the shelves as they looked 
for hidden Plushtrap Chasers like they were on some sort of demented 
Easter egg hunt. 

“That’s it. I’m calling security,” Tonya yelled, then traded the 
microphone for the tan receiver under the cash register. “I don’t get paid 
enough for this.” 

“C’mon, let us just buy the one you have back there,” Oscar persisted. It 
was too much, the thought of leaving after coming this close. He couldn’t 
bear it. 

“Get lost, kid!” Tonya yelled over her shoulder before pressing the 
receiver to her ear. “Where’s Mr. Stanley? Tell him I need some help over 
here,” she said into the phone. 

Then Tonya turned her back on the counter. 

Oscar didn’t think. 

If he’d been thinking, he never would have run around the counter and 
behind the stacks of boxes. He never would have shoved aside the teenage 
employee and the maybe-manager who stood gaping at the crumpled three- 
foot box standing between them. He sure wouldn’t have grabbed the box. 
He wouldn’t have hoisted it up, accidentally clipping the teenaged staffer in 
the chin while the clerk and Tonya yelled for Oscar to stop, to wait, to put it 
down. If he’d been thinking, Oscar would have answered Raj and Isaac 
when they suddenly appeared beside him, asking him what the heck he was 
doing. 

In that moment, the only thing bouncing around Oscar’s head were Mr. 
Devereaux’s words: The point is, quit tilling. It’s time to pick. 

Oscar slammed their pile of pooled cash on top of the worktable. He 
clutched the long, narrow box to his chest, turned, and ran around the 
counter. Then he dropped his shoulder to plow through the crowd that 
barely took notice of him, so invested they were in their own mayhem. 

“Stop! STOP!” yelled the employees, but Oscar was already to the front 
door of the Emporium, which was suddenly clear now that the crowd had 
moved inside. 

“Dude, what’re you doing?!” called Raj, but he was nearly beside Oscar, 
so it was clear that whatever he was doing, he wasn’t doing it alone. Oscar 
could hear Isaac’s short legs working double-time to keep up behind them. 


“That way!” the clerk yelled, still too close to Oscar to be comfortably 
far away. “They took it. They stole it!” 

“Stop!” yelled another voice, and this one somehow sounded more 
authoritative. 

“Oh man, it’s security!” Isaac wheezed, and suddenly, he was faster than 
Oscar and Raj, sprinting ahead of them and leading the way out of the mall, 
the east entrance now in sight. 

“We’re dead,” Raj said, but he was keeping pace with Oscar. “We’re so 
incredibly dead.” 

Oscar couldn’t say anything. He could hardly process what his body was 
doing. His mind had completely left the building. 

Suddenly, Isaac swerved, and it only took Oscar a second to see why. 
Emerging from a restroom doorway to the right was a confused mall 
security guard hiking up his pants, watching the scene in front of him 
unfold with slow recognition of the problem. 

Oscar and Raj sped past him just as the guard behind them yelled, “Stop 
them!” 

The east entrance glowed ahead like a beacon of safety, and Isaac burst 
through the door first, holding it while swinging his arm to Oscar and Raj. 

“Hurry up hurry up hurry up!” 

Oscar and Raj raced through, and the boys ran like a speeding arrow, 
Isaac at the head, while they made a hard right toward the private 
eucalyptus grove, but the parking lot was a wide expanse of obstacles 
before the trees. 

Isaac hesitated, and Oscar took the lead, weaving past minivans and 
SUVs like they were playing a human arcade game, the obstacles in 
security uniforms likely to come out of every corner. 

Except it was still only the two voices Oscar could hear behind them, 
and when he ventured a brief look over his shoulder, it was indeed still just 
the two, and at least the one from the restroom doorway looked like he was 
starting to run out of steam. 

“Get ...” he huffed between strides, “Back ... Here!” 

“We’re losing them, c’mon!” Oscar finally said, his voice sounding like 
someone else’s. It was like he’d left his body entirely, and this thieving, 
criminal escape artist had taken him over. He wasn’t Oscar. In this moment, 
he wasn’t anyone he recognized. 


“We’re almost there,” Raj gasped, and they all knew he meant the 
eucalyptus grove. The menthol air was upon them, and the strong smell 
coated the inside of Oscar’s burning lungs. 

“That’s private property!” Oscar could hear the other security guard yell, 
but he sounded farther away now. It was almost like he was telling himself 
that, not Oscar, so he wouldn’t have to chase the boys once they’d crossed 
the tree line. 

Oscar threw the box over the fence and followed it, tumbling to the 
ground and rolling through the leaves that had begun to shed now that fall 
was here. Isaac tumbled over the fence next, followed by Raj, and they took 
one more collective look through the slats in the fencing to confirm what 
Oscar already knew—the security guards had abandoned their pursuit, with 
the larger one resting his hands on his knees while he bent, huffing and 
spitting. 

The boys weren’t done running, though. It was private property, and they 
shouldn’t be there, either, but it was more than that. It was wrong. They 
knew everything about what they’d just done was wrong. Especially what 
Oscar had done. Instead of facing that, he tried to outrun it. 

He ran all the way to his street, even as Raj and Isaac pleaded with him 
to slow down, that the danger was over, that he was being crazy. They 
pleaded angrily, in fact, and Oscar knew that maybe it was because he’d 
gotten them into this mess. He’d been the one to grab the Plushtrap Chaser. 
He’d been the one to run like a bear was chasing him. He’d been the one to 
make them decide to run with him or leave him to his own terrible decision 
and all of its consequences. 

When they finally arrived at Oscar’s house, lungs burning and necks 
sweating, their legs shaking hard enough to be useless, they collapsed on 
the floor of Oscar’s small living room, splayed in a circle around the three- 
foot-long box that was damp with perspiration and decorated with stuck-on 
dead leaves. 

“Technically, it wasn’t stealing,” Oscar said, first to regain his breath and 
possibly his wits. 

“You’re an idiot,” Isaac said, and he meant it. 

“T left our money on the counter,” Oscar said, but he knew it was 
laughable, and Raj punctuated that fact by laughing mirthlessly. 


“You’re an idiot,” Isaac said again, just to be sure it registered this time, 
and Oscar nodded. 

“Yeah, I know.” 

This time they did all chuckle, not quite a laugh, and none of them meant 
it, but it was enough for Oscar to know that even though they hated what he 
did, they didn’t hate him. And besides, now they had a Plushtrap Chaser, 
regardless of how they got it. 

But now that he could catch his breath, Oscar had time to reflect on the 
hushed conversation he’d heard between the Emporium employees. What 
was it they’d said? Something about the parts looking too real? It was hard 
to see why that would be a problem. The more lifelike the better, right? 

Still, the way they’d all backed away from the toy ... something 
definitely wasn’t right about it. 

Raj and Isaac knelt next to him. They were staring at their illegally 
obtained Plushtrap Chaser. 

Raj glanced up at Oscar. “Are we going to open it?” 

Were they? They’d come this far. Was Oscar really going to let some 
disgruntled employees at the saddest toy store on earth keep him from the 
Plushtrap Chaser now? After he’d finally seized the day? After he’d finally 
plucked the fruits of all his labors? 

“Dude, are we opening this thing or not?” asked Raj. 

“Okay,” Oscar said. “Let’s see what this beast can do.” 

It took some doing to get the thing out of its box. The molded plastic 
case that should have formed a protective shell over the toy had been 
crushed along with the rest of the packaging, and was now almost one with 
the toy itself, the plastic wedged into every joint of the rabbit’s arms and 
legs. The twist ties that secured it to the mold had bent to hard knots that 
needed to be carefully unwound. And between the smeared and tired 
marked lettering, the instructions were essentially illegible. 

Once the boys had finally freed it from its packaging, Oscar stood the 
Plushtrap Chaser on its oversize feet and straightened the joints at the knees 
to stabilize it. The toy was relatively light considering the machinery that 
had to be behind it. The heaviest parts of the rabbit were its weighted feet 
(presumably for ease of movement and balance) and head (presumably for 
ease of chomping). 


“1 don’t know why, but it’s not exactly how I’d imagined it,” Raj said. 
Oscar and Isaac were quiet, which meant silent—if reluctant—agreement. 

They didn’t mean it in a snobbish way, though. Oscar had received more 
than his share of lightly damaged or refurbished toys, the byproduct of 
having more wants than money. And though Raj and Isaac could afford 
more, they never held that over Oscar’s head. 

It was more like nothing could possibly live up to the hype that had 
preceded the release of this toy that—let’s face it—didn’t do much of 
anything. It ran ... fast. And it chomped ... fast. The simplicity, the 
plainness of its functionality, had appealed to Oscar, but more than that, the 
Plushtrap was wanted. It was what everyone would have that year. It was 
what only the unlucky, the consistently passed over, would have to go 
without. Oscar couldn’t be that kid again. He just couldn’t. 

“Um, is it just me or do the teeth look wrong?” Isaac pointed at the 
straight, slightly yellow, human-looking teeth that were visible through 
Plushtrap’s partly open mouth. 

“No doubt about it. They look ... real.” 

Oscar had to admit the teeth looked a little off, definitely not like the 
ones he’d seen in the ads or in the one he saw Ms. Beastly buy. 

“Yeah, they’re not pointed,” Raj said. “Why aren’t they pointed?” 

Oscar didn’t volunteer anything. 

“They’re not pointed, but they’re creepy,” Isaac said. “They look”—he 
swallowed—“human.” 

“Yeah,” Raj said. “They do. Weird.” 

“And what’s with the eyes?” Isaac said. He reached out and poked one of 
the cloudy green eyes. “Ew!” He whipped his hand back and flicked his 
finger. “It’s squishy!” 

There was no denying it. Whatever was wrong with this Plushtrap 
Chaser’s teeth and eyes was definitely what the employees were discussing 
in the back of the store. 

Still, Oscar thought, there’s no way the parts could be real. 

He’d seen the eyeball when Isaac touched it, though. There was the 
tiniest give, like if he’d pressed on a peeled grape. There was no tap from 
his fingernail like there should have been on hard plastic. 

And then there were the teeth ... 


“That’s why they were so freaked out,” Oscar mumbled, and he only 
realized he’d said that last bit aloud when Raj and Isaac turned to stare at 
him. 

This is my punishment, Oscar thought. This is what I get for being an 
idiot and stealing this stupid toy. 

“Okay, so I’ve gotta tell you something I overheard in the store,” Oscar 
said at the end of a long, pained sigh. 

“How did you overhear anything in there?” Isaac said, focusing on the 
wrong question. 

Oscar shook his head. “Near the back room. These employees ... they 
were all standing around the box talking about how it’d been returned, and 
how they should call the cops because ...” 

“Because the eyes and the teeth are HUMAN!” Raj blurted, as though 
his wildest morbid imaginings had come true. 

“Uh, yeah,” said Oscar. “I guess when you say it out loud, it sounds a 
little ridiculous.” 

“Yeah, completely ridiculous,” Raj said, eyeing the Plushtrap Chaser. 

“Totally,” Isaac said, scooting a couple inches from the toy. 

“T mean ... it’s not like any one of us got a really good look at one close- 
up,” reasoned Oscar. “They’re probably all—” 

“Nightmarish?” guessed Isaac. 

Raj turned to Oscar. “You managed to steal us the only Plushtrap Chaser 
that looks like a half-human hybrid.” 

“T think its eyes are following me,” said Isaac. 

“Maybe if we see it in action, we’ll feel better,” Oscar said, trying to 
reboot everyone’s enthusiasm. 

Raj shrugged. “Why not?” 

Isaac shrugged, too, but then he held up the marred instructions. “I think 
we’re on our Own.” 

“Let’s see what those human teeth can do,” Raj said. 

Isaac shivered. “Stop calling them that.” 

Oscar tried pulling at the Plushtrap’s chin, but the jaw wouldn’t budge. 
The mouth was only open enough to glimpse the humanlike teeth, but it 
wouldn’t open any farther. 

“Maybe if you push from its nose,” Raj said, gripping the top half of the 
rabbit’s face while Oscar continued to pull on the jaw. 


“Here, you need more leverage,” Isaac said, taking the rabbit’s whiskers 
in his fists and yanking. 

“Dude, you’re gonna rip its face off,” Oscar said, and stopped pulling a 
little too fast, sending Raj and Isaac rocking back on their heels. 

“We just need something to pry it open,” he said, trotting to the kitchen 
to grab a butter knife from the drawer. When he returned, he jammed the 
flat end of the knife into the partially opened mouth. But when he pressed 
on the knife, the thin metal gave suddenly, and the tip of the knife broke off 
inside the rabbit’s mouth. The pointed end seemed to be stuck in its weird 
teeth. 

“Whoa,” Raj said. “Tell me it didn’t take a bite out of a knife.” 

Oscar looked at him, once again tiring of the struggle the toy was 
bringing. The payoff of his actions was becoming more elusive by the 
minute. 

“Tt didn’t bite the knife, Raj. I broke it.” 

“Maybe it just needs to be turned on before it’ll open,” Isaac said, and 
finally, one of them was thinking clearly. 

Oscar and the boys parted the fur on the back of the rabbit, searching for 
a switch to indicate it was off. All they found was a line of Velcro closed 
over a battery compartment, complete with one rectangular 9-volt battery 
tucked into its place. Below the battery compartment was a pattern of small 
holes. 

“Is that a speaker?” asked Isaac. “Hang on, it talks?” 

“Nah,” Raj dismissed. “Not in any of the ads.” His brow crinkled. “What 
does a rabbit even sound like?” 

“Gentlemen, focus. We’re looking for the power switch. Check its feet,” 
Oscar said, and sure enough, when they turned it over, a little black switch 
pointed to the “on” position. 

“Okaaaaay,” Isaac said, and he reached for the switch, flicking it off, 
then on, then off again. 

“Maybe it needs another battery,” Raj said, and that sounded like as good 
a reason as any. 

Oscar returned to the kitchen and rummaged through the junk drawer, 
sifting past rubber bands and orange juice coupons until he came upon an 
opened package of 9-volt batteries, with one left in the box. 

“Try this one,” Oscar said, hustling back to the living room. 


The boys plucked the existing battery from its place, scraping away the 
little bit of white crust that had corroded the inside. They placed the new 
battery in the compartment and closed the cover. 

Raj slapped his hands together and rubbed. “This is it!” 

Oscar picked the rabbit up and flipped the switch on, but the Plushtrap 
remained dormant, its mouth locked in a mostly closed position. 

“Oh, come ON!” Isaac complained, the stress of the day clearly 
beginning to have an effect. 

“Hang on, hang on,” Oscar said, doing his best to calm the room. He was 
turning the box over and over in his hands, and there in bold letters inside a 
comic book—style POW burst was a critical detail: 

WALKS IN THE DARK! 

FREEZES IN THE LIGHT! 

“Guys, it only works when the lights are off,” Oscar said, and his heart 
filled with the tiniest bit of hope that all wasn’t lost. 

“Oh,” Raj and Isaac said in unison, as though it made perfect sense. Of 
course. Somehow they’d all managed to forget this one crucial detail. 

The boys got right to work, pulling drapes shut and flicking lights off, 
surrounding the bunny in as much darkness as possible. But enough 
daylight still leaked through the curtains to illuminate the disappointment 
on their faces. The Plushtrap Chaser would chase nothing. 

“Tt’s just not dark enough yet,” Isaac said. 

“Tt probably has to charge or something,” Raj offered. 

But when neither Isaac nor Raj lobbied to take the Plushtrap home for 
the night, the last of Oscar’s hope evaporated, leaving his insides feeling 
dry and cracked. It was just like everything else. He’d had the nerve to 
think something good might come his way. He’d even done the one thing he 
swore to himself and to his mom and to anyone whose opinion ever 
mattered to him that he’d never do: he’d stolen. All for the tiny drop of 
what could have been a taste—just a taste—of good fortune. 

Now he was left without one third of $79.99, without one Plushtrap 
Chaser, and maybe even on the verge of losing the two friends who’d stuck 
their necks out for him when his thirst had become too great. 

Oscar’s mom called that night. 

“Anything exciting happen today?” she asked, the same question she 
always asked when she was at work and he was at home, feeding himself 


dinner and putting himself to bed while she worked the night shift and took 
care of the old people. 

“Nothing at all,” he said, just like he always did. Only this time, it hurt 
so much more to say it because something exciting had happened ... and 
then it hadn’t. 

Oscar woke to the smell of coffee like he did most mornings. His mom 
practically lived on the stuff. How she got home at three in the morning and 
woke up at seven Oscar had never been able to figure out. 

When he rolled out of bed, he was momentarily startled by the gooey- 
looking eyes swimming in the gaping hollows of a green furry face. They 
really did look human. 

“Whoa, hey there, creeper,” he said to the Plushtrap. The rabbit stood at 
attention by his bedside, right where he left it last night, the tiny shard of a 
butter knife tip still stuck between two of the visible incisors. 

But just like yesterday, it did absolutely nothing. Not that it should, 
given the daylight streaming in through the thin curtains behind Oscar’s 
bed. It was possible he’d gone to bed with the hope that a night in his dark 
room would charge whatever power source hadn’t been triggered by the 
boys the day before. It was just another stupid hope, though. 

Oscar shuffled down the hall in his flannel pants and kissed his mom on 
the cheek like he always did. If Raj or Isaac ever saw him do that, they’d 
never let him forget it, but Oscar knew what it meant to his mom, and he 
didn’t mind it so much. After his dad died, Oscar took up the habit without 
his mom ever asking. When he was too short to reach her head, he’d kissed 
her elbow, then her shoulder. It was just a peck, hardly even a kiss given 
that Oscar tucked his lips into his mouth, but disappointing his mom wasn’t 
really an option. 

After Oscar poured himself a glass of juice and a bowl of sugar flakes, 
he munched away as usual until he finally looked up and noticed his mom 
hadn’t said a word to him. She was looking down at the newspaper they still 
had delivered every morning because, as she put it, a subscription was 
cheaper than a smartphone plan. She hadn’t looked up even for a second. 

His stomach instinctively dropped. 


“What’s up?” he asked, his voice pitched a little higher than usual. 

His mom slurped her coffee slowly before pulling her mug away from 
her mouth, her head still down. 

“Seems there was some sort of incident at the mall yesterday afternoon.” 

Oscar didn’t think it was possible for his stomach to sink any lower, but 
it found a new depth in a hurry. 

“Oh yeah?” he said, shoving a mound of sugar flakes into his mouth and 
doing his best not to throw it right back up. 

“Mmhhmm,” his mom said. “Says here the Emporium had to call 
security and everything,” she said, taking another sip of coffee. 

“Oh wow,” Oscar said, spooning more sugar flakes into his mouth even 
though he wasn’t finished chewing the first spoonful. 

“All over some stupid toy. Apparently, a couple of kids even made off 
with one during the commotion.” 

Then Oscar’s mom did look up, fixing her dark-brown eyes on Oscar’s. 
People were always telling them how much they looked alike, with their 
smooth features and eyes like coal. 

“Can you believe that?” she asked, and Oscar understood that she was 
asking exactly that ... if he could believe it. Because if he knew anything 
about it—anything at all—it wouldn’t be so hard to believe it was true. 

“Irvin mentioned something about you boys heading to the mall 
yesterday,” she said, giving Oscar so many chances not to lie. She’d opened 
every single door to the truth, inviting Oscar to walk through, to be honest. 
She was begging him not to disappoint her. 

But it wasn’t just Oscar’s lie to protect anymore. Oscar had made sure of 
that when he dragged Raj and Isaac along with him. So, Oscar made a 
decision: he disappointed his mom to save his friends. 

“Must’ve been after we got there,” Oscar said. Then he shrugged. A 
period on the end of the lie. 

Oscar’s mom stared at him for so long, he thought maybe he could 
apologize without saying a word. He hoped his mom could hear it. Instead, 
she finally released his gaze and drained the last drop of coffee from her 
mug, folded the paper over itself, and threw it into the recycling bin without 
another word. 

Oscar had never felt smaller. He spent the rest of the day at home, 
avoiding Raj’s calls and pretending he didn’t hear Isaac knocking at his 


door. He lay in bed instead, staring at the bulging eyes of the Plushtrap 
while it stared back at him. 
“You’re worse than useless,” he said to it. Or maybe he said it to himself. 


The next few days passed by Oscar in a blur, and finally, Isaac and Raj 
cornered him in the cafeteria. 

“Look, if you’re possessed, we’ll understand, okay?” Isaac said. “Just 
blink twice if you need help.” 

“C’mon, man. If you’re trapped in there, let us help you,” Raj said, 
nodding with Isaac. 

“I’m not possessed,” Oscar said, but he couldn’t make himself smile. 

“Dude, if this is still about the Plushtrap thing,” Isaac said, and Oscar 
thought that was a funny way of referring to a misdemeanor. 

“Tt’s not just that,” Oscar said, and Raj and Isaac got quiet. Oscar figured 
they probably understood. They’d been friends long enough for them to 
notice that Oscar’s shoes never had the right logo, that his backpack had to 
last two school years instead of one. 

“First-generation technology is always bogus anyway,” Raj said. “We’ll 
save up for Gen Two. It’ll give them a chance to work out all the bugs.” 

Isaac nodded, and Oscar actually did feel better. They didn’t hate him. 
He was down a mom and a Plushtrap, but he was up two friends. Things 
were starting to even out. That’s probably what made the thing he had to 
say next even harder. 

“I’ve gotta take it back.” 

Isaac put his palm to his forehead, and Raj just closed his eyes. Clearly, 
they’d seen this coming. 

“With those eyes and those teeth in it?” Raj said. “C’mon, dude, just let 
it go.” 

“T can’t. My mom knows.” 

They both looked up. “How are you even alive?” asked Isaac. 

“T mean, she didn’t say she knows, but she knows,” said Oscar. 

“What good will it even do?” asked Raj. “It’s busted. Our money’s 
already gone. And do you really want to answer questions about those, um, 
‘upgrades’? ” 


Raj and Isaac looked around to make sure no one had heard. 

Oscar understood. It was bad enough owning up to the theft. Raj was 
right; he absolutely did not want to answer any questions about the eerily 
human eyes and set of matching human teeth. 

Which is still impossible, Oscar told himself, even though he hadn’t 
mustered the courage to touch the eyes for himself and swore that last night, 
those same eyes had followed him across the room. 

He shook off the memory. 

“That isn’t the point,” Oscar said, and Raj and Isaac couldn’t say 
anything because they knew it was true. It wasn’t about the money or the 
toy. It was about the taking. And Oscar wasn’t a taker. None of them were. 

“You guys don’t have to come,” he said. “I was the one who did it.” 

But Raj and Isaac just sighed and looked at their shoes, and Oscar knew 
he wouldn’t be walking to the mall himself by that afternoon. His friends 
would be there with him. 

“You’re an idiot,” said Isaac. 

“T know.” 


For some reason, the box felt heavier in Oscar’s hands on the way back to 
the mall. Maybe it was because of all the money they’d sunk into it. 

“What if we see those security guards again?” Isaac asked, and they 
stopped just outside the doors to the east entrance. 

Raj shook his head. “What’re they gonna do, arrest us for returning what 
we stole?” 

“Good point,” Isaac said, and they began the slow walk to the 
Emporium. 

But when they arrived, the Emporium was gone. 

“What?” Oscar whispered as he read and reread the big orange letters 
lighting the place above the glass doors that used to be yellow. Now they 
spelled HAL’S HALLOWEEN HALLWAY. 

“Did we come in the wrong entrance?” Raj asked, but they all knew they 
hadn’t. 

Any doubts that remained were laid to rest the minute they walked 
through the door. The same stained and grimy floor spread the length of the 


store, but now, instead of shelves lined with dusty toys and dark spaces, 
every sort of Halloween accoutrement spilled from the metal racks. There 
was an aisle for decorations and lights, another for party favors, two for 
candy, and what looked to be five or six aisles crammed with every sort of 
costume, from murderous slashers to sparkly princesses. 

“Did we fall through a wormhole or something?” Isaac asked, scratching 
the back of his neck. 

“Hey, guys, look,” Raj chuckled, pulling a green Plushtrap Chaser 
costume from the rack and holding it against him. 

“Dude, seriously?” Isaac said, yanking the costume from Raj’s hands and 
replacing it. 

Oscar made his way to the cashier’s counter at the front of the store, the 
scene of humanity’s meltdown not even a week ago. 

“Where’s the Emporium?” asked Oscar in a daze. 

The girl behind the counter wore a pair of yellow antennae on long 
springs that bounced when she looked down from her perch at Oscar. 

“The what?” 

“The store that was here before,” Oscar said. 

“Oh yeah,” she said without answering the question, nor apparently 
caring to. 

“Where’d it go?” Oscar asked. 

“Not a clue,” the girl said, returning to the screen of her phone. “I just 
filled out an application and poof,” she said, waving her hand lazily. “Here I 
am.” 

“But I need to return this,” said Oscar, suddenly feeling very young and 
small next to this older girl. 

The girl looked back down at him, and her eyes widened just enough to 
know he’d finally gotten her attention. It lasted only a second, though. 

“Is that what I think it is?” she asked, looking at her screen again. “Why 
would you want to return it? You could sell that thing for a fortune.” 

“Tt’s ... it’s not mine,” Oscar said, looking down. When he looked back 
up, the girl had lifted the eyebrow closest to him. 

“Tt is now.” 

Oscar looked back down at the box in his hands, the cardboard looking 
more crinkled than ever. 


When he rejoined Raj and Isaac, they were decked out fully in hockey 
masks and pixie wings. 

“T’m going for a kind of murderous fairy vibe,” said Raj. 

“T can’t return it,” Oscar said, and Isaac and Raj lifted their masks. 

“Well ... no one can say we didn’t try, right?” Raj said. 

“Maybe it’s for the best,” said Isaac, but he didn’t follow it up with 
anything, so Oscar knew he couldn’t think of a reason why. 

Ten minutes and three sets of pixie wings and hockey masks later, the boys 
headed back to Oscar’s house to devise a plan for trick-or-treating. Every 
year, they vowed to make it to the other side of the train tracks, where the 
good candy was rumored to be. Every year, they ran out of time, distracted 
by the false promise of the good stuff closer by. 

“We fall for it every time,” Raj said. “Not this year. This year, we start 
on the other side of the tracks and work our way back.” 

Oscar and Isaac agreed. It was a good plan. 

The plan set, Raj and Isaac fell deep into a match to the death on Raj’s 
newest console game, taking turns after wiping palm sweat from the 
controls before each turn. 

“You’re going down,” Raj said, but his thumbs jammed furiously at the 
buttons while Isaac sat back smiling. 

“Every time,” Isaac said. “You say it every time. One day, you’re just 
going to have to admit—” 

“You’re not the champion,” Raj said, beads of sweat forming on his 
brow. 

Oscar was barely paying attention, though. He was chiseling away the 
remaining battery leakage from the compartment on the back of the 
Plushtrap Chaser. 

The wind was picking up outside, and it looked like the storm the news 
had been blathering on about for the last week was finally going to hit. The 
electricity kept flickering on and off, which was only contributing more to 
Raj’s losing streak. 

“C’mon, it doesn’t count if the power goes out,” Raj complained. 

“T don’t make the rules,” Isaac said, smug in his luck. 


It had to make Raj even angrier that the game was his; so was the 
console. He should be better at it, except that they mostly kept it plugged in 
at Oscar’s because he was the only one without siblings hanging around 
begging to play. Oscar wasn’t interested in video games right then, though. 

“Oscar, help me out here. Power outages warrant a redo, don’t they?” 
Raj asked while they waited for the power to come back on. The light 
outside was fading fast. 

“Hmmm?” Oscar asked. He’d tried scraping away the rest of the gunk, 
Swapping out the battery for one in the little fan that sat on his mom’s 
bedside table, even turning the battery around to face the opposite charge, 
hoping maybe it was a manufacturing defect. Nothing powered the 
Plushtrap Chaser, though. 

“Why are you still messing with that?” Isaac asked, clearly tired of the 
drama it had brought to the last several days. 

“He’s right,’ Raj said in a rare moment of agreement. “It’s hopeless, 
Oscar. Just let it go.” 

“T think we should literally let it go,” Isaac said, “as in get rid of it.” He 
twisted his mouth for a second. “It’s not just broken, it’s ... I don’t know. 
Just wrong.” 

Oscar didn’t disagree, but he wasn’t going to admit it. He ignored Isaac, 
and he ignored Raj, too. But Oscar didn’t feel like it was hopeless. They’d 
gotten away from mall security. He’d kept the truth from his mom. They’d 
tried to do the right thing and return it. It was like there was some reason he 
had to keep this thing. 

He flipped it over and stared into the murky glistening green eyes of the 
ugly rabbit. 

“If you’re possessed, blink twice,” he said to the bunny, chuckling 
quietly. 

Yet while the Plushtrap didn’t blink, it emitted a sound. A sort of quiet 
chirp, so fast it might not have happened at all. 

“Did you guys hear that?” 

“Hear what?” asked Raj. 

The power flickered back on, and the video game resumed, along with 
Raj and Isaac’s arguing as they continued their tournament to the death. 

Then, just as Oscar was getting ready to flip the rabbit over again and 
take his thousandth look at the battery compartment, he spotted a tiny hole 


at the side of the rabbit’s metal jaw. At first, it looked like nothing but a bolt 
holding together the hinge of the lower jaw. From this angle, though, Oscar 
could see that it wasn’t a bolt at all. 

It was a port. 

Oscar’s house phone began to ring as the lights flickered again. 

With the Plushtrap still in his hands, Oscar ran to the kitchen to catch the 
call before the machine picked up. Even if they could afford two phone 
plans, Oscar’s mom would have insisted on keeping a land line. She was 
big on backup systems. 

The line was crackly, and it took Oscar asking three times who it was 
before he could clearly hear his mom’s voice. 

“Ugh, this storm,” his mom said. “How about now?” 

“Yeah, I can hear you,” Oscar said, barely listening. He was trying to get 
a closer look at the port on the Plushtrap, but it was hard when the light in 
the kitchen kept blinking out. 

“LM, I need your help tomorrow,” she said. 

“Sure, Mom,” he said, not listening. 

“I’m sorry to ask. You know how much I hate asking. It’s just that with 
this storm tonight, we’ve had so many people call in sick, we’re going to be 
completely backed up on laundry and charts tomorrow, and ... are you 
listening?” 

“Uh-huh,” Oscar lied, but it suddenly dawned on him why she sounded 
so apologetic. 

“Wait, no, Mom. No, not tomorrow.” 

“TI knew you’d be upset, hon, but it’s—” 

“Mom, tomorrow is Halloween!” Oscar said, suddenly panicked at what 
he’d agreed to, not that he’d have had much of a say in the matter either 
way. 

“T realize that, but sweetie, aren’t you and your friends a little old to be 
= 9 

“No! Why do you always do that?” Oscar said, taking it a little too far, 
but now it was too late. 

“Do what?” 

Oscar could barely hear his mom now. The storm was encroaching on 
the phone lines and rattling the house from the outside. 


Maybe it was the fact that she sounded so far away that made Oscar feel 
like he could say what he said next. 

“You act like I’m older, like I should be just like you. Like I should be 
just like Dad. You never let me be a kid. Dad died, and you expected me to 
just grow up.” 

“Oscar, I—” 

“T stole it okay? I stole the stupid Plushtrap toy. Your Little Man stole it 
Oscar said, and he knew it was cruel, but he was just so angry because it 
was happening again. Once again, he was missing out on what everyone 
else got to enjoy. 

The lights blinked off and on in the kitchen, and suddenly, his mom was 
gone. 

“Mom?” 

But all that greeted him was silence, then the echo of his own breath, and 
finally, the rapid tone of the circuit’s busy signal. 

Oscar walked slowly back to his room, just in time to watch Isaac put the 
finishing moves on Raj’s fighter. All Oscar could do, though, was stare at 
the tiny port by the Plushtrap’s jaw. The damage of what he might have just 
done to his mother was too much to contemplate all at once. 

“Raj, I need your cell phone charger,” Oscar said. 

“What? Right now? I was just catching up!” he said, pointing to the 
screen. 

“No, you weren’t,” Oscar said. 

“Listen to the man,” Isaac said. “He speaks the truth.” 

Oscar flinched at the reference to him as a ‘man’ and followed Raj to the 
hallway, where he fished a knotted cord from a drawer and handed it to 
Oscar. 

Oscar knew it was a kindness of Raj not to ask what he’d need a phone 
charger for if he didn’t have a phone, but Raj was still following Oscar’s 
motions with interest. 

Back in Oscar’s room, Isaac had Raj’s fighter’s HP down to ten percent. 

Oscar took a small breath and held it, then brought the charger’s A- 
connecter to the hole in the Plushtrap’s head. When the plug fit snugly in 
place, Oscar exhaled. 

“This is it, Raj. I’m putting you out of your misery in three ...,” 


| Teed 


The sound of Isaac’s fighter powering up for his death move pulsed in 
Oscar’s ears as he marched the Plushtrap and charger to the outlet across the 
room. 

“Two ...” said Isaac as the lights began to flicker overhead. 

“Just get it over with,” Raj said miserably. 

“And you’re de—” 

Oscar didn’t remember plugging the adapter into the wall. He didn’t 
remember the lights going out, or Isaac’s fighter winning the golden belt. If 
he was pressed, he might not be able to remember his own name. 

All he knew for the moment was that the room was dark, and he was on 
the other side of it. 

“What the ... ?” he could hear Isaac say. 

“Do you smell burning?” he could hear Raj say. 

“Oh—oh man, Oscar,” Isaac said. 

“Oscar? Oscar!” said Raj. 

Oscar couldn’t understand why they seemed so panicked. He could 
barely make out the outline of their heads in the moonlight that illuminated 
the room in flicks and whips while the tree branches outside waved under 
the storm. 

“Oscar, how many fingers am I holding up?” said Raj. 

“You’re not holding anything up,” Isaac said, and Raj shook his head. 

“Right. Sorry.” 

“I’m fine,” Oscar said, not certain that was true, but he was getting 
weirded out with them acting so worried about him. “What’s wrong with 
you guys?” 

“Uh, do you not remember soaring across the room?” Raj said, and they 
looked even more worried now. 

“Knock it off,” Oscar dismissed, using the wall for support as he 
struggled to get to his feet. His head felt like it was stuck in a fish tank. 

“We’re not messing with you,” Isaac said, and a closer look at their faces 
told Oscar it was true. 

“One minute, you’re plugging in the charger, the next minute, you’re 
airborne. I think it was the lightning.” 

Outside, the moon fought for space in the sky against the invading 
clouds. Inside, Oscar’s vision blurred for a moment longer until he finally 
felt things come into focus. 


“Maybe we should call his mom,” he heard Isaac say. 

“No! No, don’t call her,” Oscar said, and they both looked worried again. 

“What if your brain shorted out or something?” Raj said. 

“T’d still be smarter than you,” Oscar murmured. 

“He’s fine,” said Isaac. 

Oscar tried the light switch by the door. “Dead.” 

Isaac tried the remote for the television, but the screen stayed dark. 
“Nothing.” 

“Well, I guess that settles it,” Raj said, heading for the living room where 
their sleeping bags were. “We have no choice but to get sick on Scorching 
Hot Cheese Knobs and knock out tomorrow night’s plan.” 

Raj and Isaac headed for the living room, but Oscar lagged behind in his 
room. Halloween—for a precious minute, he’d forgotten that he wouldn’t 
be able to go trick-or-treating. As the clouds swept away from the moon, 
Oscar looked across the room and saw the blackened scorch line beginning 
at the outlet and traveling up the wall. 

“Great,” Oscar muttered. “Something else to apologize for.” 

He was already formulating his explanation to his mom when he swore 
he saw a flicker of movement from the Plushtrap Chaser, still miraculously 
plugged into the fried outlet. 

“Was that you?” he said, but the ugly green rabbit merely stared back at 
him, the glow of moonlight making its buggy eyes seem to shimmer. Oscar 
closed his bedroom door so he wouldn’t have to look at his series of 
mistakes. 

Just as the door clicked shut, Oscar swore, beyond all reason, that he 
heard Raj’s voice from the other side of the door. 

“Lights out,” it said, with the faintest trickle of a giggle on the end of the 
sentence. 

Oscar flung the door open, his eyes moving straight to the Plushtrap. 

“What did you say?” 

“Huh?” asked Isaac, already down the hall on his way to the living room. 

“You heard that, right?” 

“Heard what?” 

Oscar turned back to his room. “C’mon, Raj, it’s not funny.” 

“What’s not funny?” Raj asked, poking his head around the corner at the 
other end of the hall. 


Oscar shook his head. “Nothing. Never mind.” 

“Are you sure you’re okay?” said Isaac, and Oscar conjured another 
laugh. 

“Stupid storm’s making me hear things.” 

In the living room, Raj and Isaac had torn into two bags of chips and 
were slurping Electric Blue Fruit Punch at a record pace. 

Isaac belched. “Okay, so if we start here, just over the train tracks, we 
can work our way south,” he said. 

They were studying Raj’s glowing phone, opened to a map of the town 
that centered on the split by the rail line between the east and west side. It 
wasn’t lost on Oscar that they lived on the wrong side of the tracks, a joke 
that was a little too on-the-nose to make even with his friends. 

“No, we need to start south and work our way north,” said Raj. 

“But we’ll waste all our time in transit,” argued Isaac, punctuating his 
point with another loud burp. 

“Dude, I could smell that one,” said Raj, scooting away. “And we’ll 
move faster between houses if we’re not already weighted down by candy. 
It’s all about aerodynamics,” he said. 

Oscar had been watching the plan hatch from the kitchen while he 
quietly crumbled. The boys finally noticed him standing there. 

“Fine, Oscar can break the tie,” Raj said. “Where do we start, Oscar? 
North or south end of the tracks?” 

“T can’t go.” 

Raj let his phone drop to the floor. He and Isaac exchanged a look, and 
Oscar tried hard not to believe they hadn’t seen this coming. But Oscar was 
forever having to skip out on plans when his mom called on him. Her Little 
Man. 

“It’s my mom,” he said unnecessarily. “She needs ...” He couldn’t even 
bring himself to finish. 

“Eh,” Isaac said, putting on his best act. “It’ll be lame anyway.” 

Raj played along as usual. “I bet the full-size candy bars are just a 
myth.” 

Isaac nodded. “And we’II split the stash three ways.” 

Oscar knew they were lying about it being epic. He knew they’d divvy 
their haul with him. He knew they were disappointed. But he’d never felt 
more grateful for his friends. 


“Whoa, is that a white streak in your hair?” Isaac said, pointing at 
Oscar’s head, pivoting the conversation. 

Oscar reached for his head. “Seriously?” 

Isaac chuckled. “No, but I’m sure you fried a few brain cells back there.” 

Raj cackled. “Not that you could afford to lose any.” 

For the first time that night, Oscar felt settled. Maybe everything would 
be okay. He didn’t have a Plushtrap Chaser or a cell phone or Halloween. 
He didn’t have his dad. But he had a mom who needed him, and he had 
friends who had his back. 

Oscar had just taken his place beside Raj and Isaac on the living room 
floor when a spear of lightning tore through the sky. The light was so 
bright, at first Oscar thought his vision had blinked out. But when the light 
didn’t return, and only the shadows and shapes of his living room 
surrounded him, he realized the rest of the house’s power must have gone 
out. 

“Uh, I think maybe you did a little more damage than just shorting out 
the socket,” Raj said through the dark. 

Oscar stood and felt his way to the window, which was harder to see 
than before because whatever moonlight that had made it through the storm 
earlier was gone now, covered by a thick layer of thunderheads. 

“Nah,” he said, pressing his cheek to the glass. “The power’s out 
everywhere. Lightning must have hit the grid.” 

Isaac snorted. “Bet it’s not out on the east side. Ever wonder how theirs 
never seems to get hit?” 

“Hang on, Ill get some flashlights,” Oscar said. “Mom bought a second 
one after the last time the power went out.” 

“That one lasted almost two days,” Raj remembered. “We had to throw 
away half the food in our fridge.” 

“Two days with no TV, no games,” Isaac said, shivering. 

“My phone lost charge by the middle of the first day,” said Raj. The boys 
stared into their memories of the Great Power Outage of May before 
shaking off the horror. 

Oscar handed Isaac the cheap, lightweight flashlight and kept the heavier 
one for himself. 

“Gonna have to use your phone flashlight,” Oscar said to Raj. “We only 
have two.” 


“Sure, go ahead. Run my battery down,” Raj pouted. 

Suddenly, the boys heard a thump coming from the other end of the 
house. 

Oscar might have been able to dismiss it as his imagination if Isaac and 
Raj hadn’t reacted, too. 

“Did you get a cat or something?” asked Isaac. 

Oscar shook his head, then remembered they couldn’t see him. He 
flicked on his flashlight, and Isaac followed suit. 

Another thump echoed from the same place, and Oscar swallowed 
audibly. 

“Maybe a tree branch against the window,” Raj offered, but he didn’t 
sound convinced. 

Isaac shook his head and charged forward. “This is stupid.” 

“Hang on—” Oscar said, but Isaac was already halfway down the hall. 

When they rounded the corner, another thump, this one decidedly louder, 
greeted them from behind Oscar’s closed bedroom door. The house was too 
dark to detect any sort of shadow from the crack under the door, but the 
source of the sound was unmistakable. Something was banging slowly 
against the door in Oscar’s room. 

“So it was a ‘no’ on the cat then,” whispered Isaac, his voice shaking. 

“Tt’s not a cat,” Oscar hissed, and Raj shushed them. 

As though in response to their voices, the banging stopped, and the boys 
held one collective breath. 

Then, all at once, the banging started again, this time twice as fast, and 
with so much force it shook the door. 

The boys slowly backed away but didn’t dare take their eyes off the 
door. 

“Still think it’s a tree branch?” Isaac shot at Raj. 

“Not unless the tree climbed into my room,” said Oscar. 

“You guys, shut up!” said Raj, holding up his hand. “Do you hear that?” 

“What is that?” Oscar whispered. 

“Tt sounds like ... scraping,” said Isaac. 

They didn’t have to wait long to find out. There, underneath the 
doorknob, a jagged hole in the plywood began to emerge, dug by a row of 
persistent, human-looking teeth strong enough to bite through a butter 


knife. As they dug, the teeth seemed to change shape, sharpening as they 
worked. 

“No way,” Oscar breathed. 

“T thought it was broken!” yelled Raj, almost accusingly. 

“Tt was!” said Oscar. 

“Can we please argue about this somewhere else?” said Isaac, watching 
the quick progress the sawlike teeth were making on the area around the 
doorknob. 

“Dude, it’s a toy,” said Raj. “What do you think it’s gonna—?” 

Then, with two more powerful bangs against the door, the bronze knob 
fell from Oscar’s bedroom door, and it swung open to reveal a three-foot 
shadow with long, crooked ears. And while the Plushtrap was a mere 
shadow, its gleaming jagged teeth shone even in the dark. 

And was that blood around the edges of the front teeth? How was that 
possible? Unless the teeth were human and the gums were human, too, but 
then, would they still bleed? It was all impossible ... so impossible he 
couldn’t bring himself to say any of it out loud. 

Then, all at once, the Plushtrap Chaser ran straight for Oscar, Raj, and 
Isaac. 

“go, g0, GO!” Raj screamed, and they sprinted down the hallway. Oscar 
heard a small clunk and nearly tripped over whatever it was. 

“In here!” 

The boys darted to the next closest room—Oscar’s mom’s—and 
slammed the door behind them. Raj shoved the others aside to lock it. 

“Really? You think it can turn knobs?” said Isaac, trying to catch his 
breath. 

“T don’t know what the heck it can do!” yelled Raj. 

Then the banging began, this time on the door closest to them, and the 
boys stepped away in unison, watching the door bow under the force of a 
three-foot bunny. 

Oscar’s eyes widened as he heard the telltale sounds of scraping. The 
Plushtrap was about to chew through this door, too. 

“How do we stop this thing?” said Isaac. “The switch is under its foot, 
right?” 

They continued to back away as the scraping grew faster, the rabbit’s 
skills appearing to improve with practice. 


Oscar looked around the room frantically. 

“Well, we’d better think of something quick, or that thing’s gonna eat 
through this door, too, and I don’t think we can all fit in the bathroom,” said 
Raj. 

“Uh ... uh...” Oscar was beginning to grow frantic as the chewing sped 
up. 

“Oscar,” Isaac said, and Isaac shined his flashlight at the hole beginning 
to form by the doorknob. 

“Quick, climb up on something. The highest thing you can!” said Oscar, 
and they each found a surface: Oscar on the vanity, Isaac on the dresser, and 
Raj perched precariously on top of the headboard. 

In no time, the rabbit had chewed through this door, too, and with a loud 
thunk, the doorknob fell to the carpet. Slowly, the door creaked open to 
once again reveal the vacant stare and crooked ears of the green rabbit. 

The boys held their breath and waited to see what the Plushtrap would 
do. It took very little time for the bunny to make up its mind. A machine 
bent on its one job, it headed straight for the object in front of it, the dresser, 
and began to drag its jagged teeth across the wood of the wardrobe’s legs. 

“Are you kidding me?” screamed Isaac, watching in horror as the bunny 
made fast work of one of the dresser’s ornate legs. In another minute, the 
leg would be reduced to the width of a toothpick. 

And Isaac would topple to the floor right in front of this ruthless rabbit. 

“Think of something,” pleaded Isaac. “Somebody think of something 
fast!” 

“How else do we turn it off? How do we turn it off??” Oscar asked no 
one in particular, but little piles of sawdust were forming at the base of the 
dresser, and Isaac was already starting to slide. 

“The light!” Raj yelled from the headboard, momentarily losing his grip 
on the ledge and catching himself. “The box said it freezes under light!” 

“My flashlight’s in the hallway!” screamed Isaac, sliding inches closer to 
the rabbit. 

It took Oscar far too long to remember he was holding the other 
flashlight. 

“Oscar, now!” Raj hollered, and Oscar regained his senses and flipped 
the beam on the Plushtrap Chaser, but it didn’t work. 


“Get in front of it!” screamed Isaac, and Oscar scooted to the edge of the 
vanity and stretched his arm as far as he could so the beam of light shone 
directly into the bunny’s eyes. Suddenly, the toy froze mid-gnaw as it 
opened wide for the last chomp on the dresser leg. 

The room grew quiet as the boys gasped for breath, the beam on the 
bunny shaking under Oscar’s trembling grip. 

“Keep it steady,” Isaac whispered, as though afraid he could wake the 
beast by sound. 

“I’m trying,” hissed Oscar. 

The dresser was swaying under Isaac, trying to figure out how to stand 
on three and a half legs, and it wasn’t going to hold Isaac for much longer, 
with or without the Plushtrap chewing away at it. 

“T’ve gotta get down,” said Isaac, more to himself than to his friends, but 
they understood. He was trying to gather the courage. 

“Tt can’t move as long as Oscar keeps the light on it,” said Raj, sensing 
Isaac’s distrust of the momentary armistice. 

“Easy for you to say,” said Isaac, never taking his eyes off the green 
thing at the base of the wardrobe. “You’re not inches from a freaking wood 
chipper. And what the heck is up with its teeth? They’re not supposed to be 
like that!” 

“T think it’s safe to say there’s a whole lot about this situation that ‘isn’t 
supposed to be like that,’ ” said Raj. “Now, would you get off the stupid 
dresser?” 

“He’s right,” Oscar encouraged. “So long as there’s light, it’s not 
supposed to be able to move.” 

“Tt wasn’t supposed to be able to move anyway, remember?” said Isaac. 
“How did it suddenly come to life?” 

Neither Raj nor Oscar had a good answer to offer, especially not in that 
moment. 

“Maybe the lightning? Something about when it was plugged into that 
socket? I don’t know. What I do know is that the dresser is about a second 
from collapsing,” said Oscar. 

Isaac nodded, accepting his fate. He was going to have to venture down 
to the floor. 

Sliding himself as far away as possible from the open mouth of the 
Plushtrap, Isaac draped one leg over the side of the dresser, then snatched it 


back, throwing his balance off. 

“Man, come on,” said Raj, the suspense killing him. 

“Hey, you pick which limb you’d rather have torn off,” growled Isaac, 
and Oscar tried a different approach. 

“Quick and easy, just like a bandage,” he suggested, and Isaac seemed to 
like that approach better. 

“Quick and easy,” Isaac repeated. Just as Isaac prepared to slide down 
the dresser, from the far corner of the room—a corner where no one stood 
—a voice called out: 

“Guys, over here!” 

Not just any voice, though. Raj’s voice. 

Oscar didn’t mean to move the light to the corner. It was instinct. 

“Whoa whoa whoa put it back! PUT IT BACK!” 

Oscar juggled the flashlight in his hands and swept the beam back to the 
Plushtrap’s gaze just as its teeth prepared to close on Isaac’s sliding leg. 

“Cute trick, Raj. Think maybe you could practice your ventriloquist act 
some other time?” said Oscar, struggling to regain his breath. 

But Raj simply stare wide-eyed into the corner. 

“Tt wasn’t you, was it?” said Isaac, holding his nearly sacrificed leg. 

“Oh, come on. Seriously?” said Oscar. “It can mimic voices?” 

“Our voices,” said Raj, gulping. “To distract us.” 

The damaged wood under Isaac groaned, and he slid to the ground and 
ran faster than Oscar had ever seen him move. Then he skittered across the 
floor and joined Oscar on the vanity. 

“Now what?” asked Raj, and Oscar was ready with an answer. 

“We leave the flashlight right here, right on it,” he said. “We barricade 
the door and call for help.” 

Isaac and Raj thought it over for a second, then silently agreed. 

Raj moved first, inching his way off the headboard and backing toward 
the door, never taking his eyes from the demented bunny, which, under the 
glow of Oscar’s flashlight, had taken on a sickly green hue amid the 
surrounding shadows of the room. 

Then, just as Oscar and Isaac began to lower themselves to the carpet, 
too, the beam from the flashlight began to falter, flickering on and off in 
split-second intervals. Panicked, Oscar slapped the side of the light and 


brought the beam back to life, but only for a second, when it once again 
failed and reappeared. 

“Oscar,” said Isaac in a low voice. “Is there any chance at all that wasn’t 
the battery on your flashlight dying?” 

The beam blinked out and reappeared again, but it stayed extinguished 
long enough this time for them to hear the jaw of the Plushtrap shut. 

“Um ...” Oscar started, but he didn’t have time to finish. When the beam 
flickered out this time, it stayed out. 

“RUN!” screamed Oscar, and he and Isaac clamored for the door, so 
close to Raj that they scraped his heels with their toes. 

They ran across the hall to the bathroom, and Isaac kicked his dropped 
flashlight ahead of them. They slammed the door, throwing their backs 
against it just in time to feel the force of three feet of metal and plush hit the 
other side. The rabbit wasted no time in running its cracked teeth across the 
wood, again tackling the area right around the doorknob. 

Isaac dropped to the ground and groped for his lost flashlight, juggling it 
between his hands before finding the switch and casting the beam toward 
the door. But they all knew it would only work on the bunny once it had 
chewed through the door. 

Once they were face-to-face with it. 

“Raj, where’s your phone?” said Oscar. 

Raj held it up like a talisman, its screen glowing blue in the dark 
bathroom. 

“Save the light,” said Oscar. “Just call for help.” 

“Right,” said Raj, catching on. He quickly dialed 9-1-1 and waited for 
the relief that would come in the form of the operator’s voice. 

“What’s taking so long?” said Isaac, eyeing the handle as it began to 
wiggle in its loosening support. 

“Nothing’s happening,” said Raj, trying again. 

“What do you mean? It’s 9-1-1. Someone has to pick up,” said Isaac. 

“T mean the call’s not even going through. Like, there’s no service or 
something, I don’t know!” said Raj, growing desperate. 

“Okay okay,” said Oscar, trying to think it through, but the Plushtrap’s 
teeth were starting to show through the door again. It was leaving tiny green 
threads on the splinters around the doorknob. “Here’s what we’re gonna do. 
I’m going to open the door—” 


“Bad idea,” Raj said, panic lacing his voice. “Horrible idea.” 

“Wait,” said Oscar, trying to keep his cool. “I’ll open the door, and I’ll 
hit it with the light to freeze it. You two get out while I’m shining the light 
on it and go to the kitchen. You can call for help using the landline.” 

“So you’re saying we should just leave you alone with this thing?!” said 
Isaac. 

“Unless you want to stay here with me,” said Oscar. 

“No, no, no, we’ll go to the kitchen,” Raj interjected quickly. 

“On my mark,” said Oscar, absolutely not ready to call the mark, but it 
was happening one way or the other; the knob was about to drop. 

“Three ... two ...,” said Oscar, and he grabbed the doorknob before it 
lost its place in the door. “GO!” 

Oscar flung the door open. The Plushtrap Chaser burst through and went 
stiff in the light. Its eyes were so muddy under the close beam of the 
flashlight that it was difficult to remember they used to be green. The 
featureless orbs were somehow more terrifying than normal live eyeballs. 
Its mouth hung open hungrily, the teeth even bloodier than they had been 
the last time Oscar had looked at them closely. Its jointed arms extended 
straight in front of it, ready to push through the door. 

Shallow breaths filled the tiny bathroom as Isaac and Raj jockeyed for 
Space as far away from the Plushtrap as possible, but it was standing in the 
doorway. They’d have to squeeze past. 

Isaac sucked his stomach in, but the wiry hair of the rabbit still grabbed 
at his shirt. Raj winced and did the same, the top of the rabbit’s arm 
brushing his ear as he scooted past and stood on shaking legs in the hallway 
with Isaac. 

“You’re sure about this?” Raj asked Oscar. 

“Nope,” Oscar said. “Just hurry.” 

The boys scampered down the hall and yanked the receiver off the 
phone’s cradle in the kitchen. But as Oscar stood eye to bulging eye with 
the Plushtrap, he could tell by the way his friends were arguing that they 
weren't getting through to 9-1-1 by the landline either. 

When they reappeared in the doorway, Raj was the one to deliver the bad 
news. 

“The phone lines must be down.” 


As though as confirmation, wind whipped against the house, rattling the 
space behind the walls where pipes snaked through insulation. 

“So to recap,” said Oscar, his light carefully trained on the bunny. 
“We’re trapped in my house with a mindless eating machine with exactly 
one working flashlight—” 

“Two if you count my phone,” Raj interrupted. 

“During a storm that’s knocked out the power lines and the phone lines.” 

“And the water,” said Isaac, and the two boys waited for explanation. 

“T got thirsty. I tried the tap.” 

“Tt can chew through almost anything, so ...” said Raj. 

“_,.. SO what happens when our lights run out of batteries?” said Oscar. 

The boys all stared at the Plushtrap as though it might provide an answer. 
It merely stared into the light Oscar didn’t dare take away from its face. 

“Hey, Oscar,” said Raj, and Oscar didn’t like the tone of his voice; it was 
obvious some new horror had just occurred to him. 

“What?” 

“How are you going to get out of there?” 

“What do you mean? Same way you guys did.” 

“Uh uh,” said Raj, shaking his head slowly. “We got out because you 
were shining the light on its face.” 

“Yeah?” 

“We’re not facing it anymore. We’re behind it.” 

Oscar finally understood. The light didn’t just need to be on the rabbit. 

“Tt needs to see it,” he said, shuddering at the prospect of those horrible 
dead human eyes seeing anything. 

“Hang on,” said Isaac. “We can use the mirror.” 

The boys tried to angle the Plushtrap toward the counter while Oscar’s 
hands made the beam tremble. 

“Hold it steady,” said Isaac. 

“T’m trying. Do you know how hard it is to hold something level for this 
long? My arm is killing me.” 

“Would you two shut up!” said Raj, leaning hard against the Plushtrap. 
“Isaac, help me with this thing.” 

“Dude, it’s not that heavy.” 

Raj stood away from the rabbit. “You try.” 

But Isaac couldn’t make it budge either. 


“Tt’s like its gears are locked in place or something.” 

They were quiet for another minute. 

“Okay, here’s what we’re going to do,” said Oscar. “One of you is going 
to hold the flashlight over its head, between the ears.” 

“Not it,” said Raj. 

“T’ll sneak past, and then we’II all make a run for it.” 

Raj nodded. “Yeah, that could work. As soon as it turns around, we just 
back away, keep the flashlight on it for as long as we can.” 

“Exactly. It’ll buy us time to at least get down to the end of the hall.” 

It was the best idea they could muster. And it might have worked if the 
smaller, cheaper flashlight hadn’t begun to flicker in that exact moment. 
The Great Power Outage of May had drained the batteries prematurely. 

“Nononononononono!” said Oscar. 

“Why do all your flashlights die??” accused Isaac. 

“Shut up and hold it!” said Oscar, and they were all beginning to panic. 
Isaac cringed as he held his arm between the scratchy fur of the rabbit’s 
ears, angling to beam into its bulging eyes as Oscar flattened himself 
against the doorframe. 

“Lemme in, I’ll use my phone light,” Raj said breathlessly. 

“Too late,” said Isaac. “No room to switch places.” 

Then, just as Oscar was pinned beside the Plushtrap, they heard a voice 
from the front door. 

“Little man, I need your help!” 

“Ms. Avila!” Isaac called over his shoulder. “Stay there, don’t move!” 

But it was Isaac who moved, just a little as he turned, but enough to 
move the beam of his light. 

“Isaac, the light!” Oscar yelled. 

“Sorry!” Isaac refocused the light on the rabbit, but his arm shook, and 
the beam began to falter, creating a deeply unsettling strobe effect. Now, the 
rabbit’s head slowly turned in increments, during the dark intervals between 
the flashlight’s beam. 

When Oscar was nose-to-nose with the rabbit, the flashlight failed 
completely. 

“RUUUUUUUUN!” screamed Oscar, and the others followed suit, 
shrieking in unison as the Plushtrap lived up to its name, chasing them in 


freakishly smooth mechanical strides down the narrow hallway of Oscar’s 
house. 

Raj tried to aim his phone screen behind him, but the beam of light 
wasn’t bright enough. 

“The flashlight!” yelled Isaac, and Raj tried, but in his panic, the thin 
phone slipped right through his sweating hands. 

If there was any hope that the phone had survived its fall, the immediate 
crunch that came afterward extinguished that hope. The rabbit had stomped 
it. 

“The garage!” Oscar managed to gasp as they fled the biggest regret of 
his life. 

Throwing the door closed against the lunging rabbit, the boys listened in 
horror as it once again began to attack its obstacle with ruthless efficiency. 

“This is the world’s worst toy!” Raj gasped. 

“How did it know your mom’s voice?” Isaac wheezed. 

“Who knows?” Oscar said, throwing his hands in the air. “Maybe it 
overheard her on the phone?” He laughed hysterically. “The possibilities are 
endless!” 

Isaac clapped a hand over Oscar’s shoulder. “Snap out of it, man. You’re 
losing it.” 

Unlike the other rooms of the house that had at least the benefit of 
shadows to see the space around them, the garage was pitch black, and as 
the boys groped for something they could use against the intruder, they 
managed only to knock tools off of shelves and trip over stored Christmas 
decorations. 

“IT suppose it’s too much to ask if you have another flashlight in here 
somewhere?” Isaac asked, his voice raspy with fear. 

“Even if there was, I wouldn’t know where to find it,” said Oscar. 

Raj slapped at the garage door button frantically, but with the power out, 
it was no use. 

“Don’t these things have an emergency release?” he asked, logic finally 
prevailing. 

Fur and teeth were beginning to emerge through the chewed hole in the 
door to the garage. 

“There’s a lever!” said Oscar, groping toward where he thought the 
middle of the garage might be. “It should be somewhere right ...” 


He began jumping, stretching his hands high overhead as he swiped at 
the air, searching for the knob tied to the rope that released the emergency 
lock on the garage. 

Raj joined him in the hunt, taking a different place in the garage. 

“Guys,” Isaac said, and his voice was unsettlingly calm. 

“Hang on, I think my finger just hit it!” said Oscar. 

“Guys,” said Isaac again. 

“Where?” said Raj. 

“Over here.” 

“Where’s here?” 

“Here!” 

“Guys!” said Isaac, and this time, they both paused to listen. The sound 
of scraping began to grow louder as the Plushtrap made quick work of the 
thicker wood of the garage door. 

“What?” they answered in unison. 

“Where are we gonna go after this?” 

Oscar understood at some primal level why Isaac sounded so defeated. 
With no light anywhere to be found, all they could do was ... run. 

“So what, we just hang out and get ground up into hamburger?” said Raj, 
resuming jumping. 

Oscar’s terror reached a new level when Isaac didn’t have an answer. 

And to think—less than an hour ago, their most vexing question had 
been about which end of the train tracks to start their trick-or-treating on. 

“The train!” yelled Oscar, and just as he did, he heard Raj’s hand connect 
with the wooden knob and string attached to the garage’s emergency 
release. The knob slapped the metal of the garage door. Raj jumped again, 
and again he sent the knob swinging. 

“There it is!” 

“You guys!” Isaac yelled, urgency finding him once more, and they 
watched wide-eyed as the doorknob in the door began to wobble. 

“He’s almost—” said Isaac. 

“I’m almost—’” said Raj. 

Isaac’s voice laughed from the other side of the door. 

“This is it. I’m putting you out of your misery in three, two, and you’re 
de—” 


Raj’s fingertips caught the wooden knob, and this time, he yanked hard 
on the string, releasing the automatic arm holding the garage door in place. 

“Get on that side!” said Oscar, and Isaac grabbed the ridge of the garage 
door on one end while Raj took the middle and Oscar took the left. 

They flung the garage door up with enough force to make it hit the top of 
its track and come crashing back down. Just as it did, the handle from the 
door leading to the garage dropped to the concrete floor, and the door 
swung wide to reveal the Plushtrap Chaser, set on its mindless destruction. 

The boys threw the garage door open with the same amount of force, 
only this time, they ducked underneath before it came crashing down again, 
putting them on the driveway and the rabbit in the garage. 

It slammed into the door, dragging its teeth across the metal as they 
winced under the sound. 

“This isn’t going to hold it for long,” said Raj, and while the Oscar from 
yesterday might have doubted that even a functioning Plushtrap could cut 
through metal, the Oscar of tonight had every reason to believe it. It 
wouldn’t stop until it had a reason to. 

“The train,” he said again, then took off running, taking it on faith that 
the other two would follow him. 

They’d barely reached the end of Oscar’s block before they heard the 
squeal of twisted metal and knew their borrowed time had expired. 

They hurdled over bikes left abandoned in people’s yards and electrical 
transformer boxes, swatting away dead leaves and trash that swirled in the 
air and assaulted them, all to the soundtrack of a steadily moving 
mechanical rabbit, its jaw opening and slamming shut to the increasing 
speed of its chasing legs. Oscar dared to look behind him only once, finding 
the Plushtrap closer than he’d feared it might be. Close enough to see the 
glowing whites of its vacant eyes. 

As the rabbit gained speed, Oscar and his friends lost theirs. The train 
tracks were still a quarter of a mile away. 

“Do I even wanna know how close it is?” Raj asked, his breathing 
quickly transitioning to wheezing. 

“Just keep going,” said Oscar. “Whatever you do, don’t slow down.” 

Oscar’s legs burned as he pumped his arms, but even Isaac was starting 
to peter out. They just needed to make it a little farther. 


“How ...” Isaac panted, swallowing before trying again. “How do you 
even know there’! be a train?” 

Isaac had guessed the plan Oscar didn’t have time to explain. 

“T don’t,” said Oscar, and Isaac didn’t say a word after that. He 
understood. 

If there wasn’t a train, then there wasn’t any hope. 

Dipping into the clearest path they could find in the wooded land leading 
to the train tracks, Oscar, Isaac, and Raj raised their hands over their heads, 
shielding their faces from low-hanging branches as they listened to the 
Plushtrap crash a path through the trees, making quick work of any 
branches that dared to get in its way. 

When the path began to incline, Oscar knew they were getting close. His 
lungs were on fire, and Raj was beginning to cough and sputter in pain. 

When they crested the hill, Oscar saw the most glorious of all sights. 

Light. 

“T told you!” Isaac panted. “They never lose power!” 

But as they tumbled down the slope leading toward the tracks, they once 
again lost sight of the east side of town, and the dreadful realization struck 
Oscar that without a train to intervene, they’d never make it to the east side 
in all of its lighted glory. 

The sound was faint at first, nearly impossible to hear over the howl of 
the storm and the buzz saw of the Plushtrap gaining on them. But when Raj 
and Isaac looked in the same direction, Oscar thought he heard it; he knew 
it wasn’t just a phantom noise. 

“The train horn. It’s coming. It’s coming!” yelled Isaac, and they yelled a 
collective whoop, filled with relief at hearing their savior approach. 

But they couldn’t see it yet. And when they turned around, what they did 
see froze Oscar’s blood in his veins. The shadow of a rabbit loomed tall 
across their feet before the bunny ascended the top of the hill. 

“It’s not going to come in time,” whispered Isaac. 

“Tt’ ll come in time,” said Oscar. 

The Plushtrap tipped forward at the hill’s peak and launched, sprinting 
down the hill with expert, deadly precision. 

“We’re gonna die. This is it, we’re gonna die,” said Raj. 

“Tt’ll come in time,” said Oscar, never taking his eyes off the rabbit. 


It was halfway down the hill before Oscar heard the beautiful sound of 
the train’s hom cutting through the whir of the storm. 

The rabbit’s eyes bulged, its ears stuck straight in the air at an unnatural 
angle. And as it pounded down the second half of the hill, Oscar could even 
see shards of mangled metal from the garage door sticking out of its jagged 
teeth like chicken bones. 

Oscar dared to take his eyes from the Plushtrap just long enough to catch 
sight of a small circle of light at the visible end of the track. 

“Go,” Oscar said to them. 

“No way, man,” said Raj. “All of us together.” 

“Just trust me,” said Oscar. 

“Are you nuts??” said Isaac. 

“Get across the tracks,” Oscar said, a strange calm washing over his 
body as he measured the distance in each periphery of his vision—the 
oncoming Plushtrap and the oncoming train. His brain was doing calculus 
he didn’t even know it was capable of. 

The horn blared through the air. The train was mere seconds away. So 
was the Plushtrap. 

“Guys, it’s going to work. This time, it’s all going to work out. Just go!” 

Raj and Isaac took one more look at the oncoming train before diving 
over the tracks and tumbling to the other side. 

Oscar could hear them screaming for him to cross, too. He could hear 
them, but he wasn’t listening. All he could focus on in that moment—in that 
split second between possible life and certain death—was the crackling but 
stubbornly alive voice of Mr. Devereaux. 

Sometimes you have to know when to go for it, even when it doesn’t look 
possible. 

And in that impossibly small and infinitely huge space of time, Oscar 
finally understood what the old man meant: Sometimes luck isn’t found. 
Sometimes luck is made. And when it is, you had to know when to grab 
hold of it. 

To the chorus of his friends’ screams and the blaring of the train’s horn 
and the grinding of the rabbit’s teeth, he took three giant steps to the right 
toward the train, stepped onto the tracks, and waited for just the right 
second when the Plushtrap Chaser raced onto the tracks and turned to face 
Oscar and the bright beam of the train’s light. 


Oscar had a split second to register the sinister eyes. From its ravenous, 
bloody mouth came the voice of Oscar’s mom: 

“Little man, I need you!” 

Then Oscar jumped. 

The air surrounding him smelled of steel and fire, and at first, he didn’t 
know what to make of the light. Was he in a hospital? Was he trapped under 
the train? 

“Did I die?” he heard his voice in his ears, and it seemed detached from 
his body. 

“Honestly, I don’t know how, but no,” said Raj, gulping at the air on the 
east side of the tracks, his body trembling hard enough for Oscar to feel the 
ground shaking under him. Or maybe that was the train. He could still hear 
the blare of the horn in the distance. 

Oscar looked to Isaac, whose hands were on his knees as he closed his 
eyes and shook his head slowly. 

“You’re an idiot,” he said. 

“T know,” said Oscar. 

But once the ground stopped vibrating and their legs stopped wobbling, 
they crept over to the part of the track where Oscar had played his most 
dangerous game of chicken. 

There, twisted and flattened into the concrete ties and hardened soil 
underneath, lay the remains of one Plushtrap Chaser, a light-activated 
chomping green rabbit and no longer Oscar’s favorite character from the 
Freddy Fazbear world. Dark green fur floated in clouds around the smashed 
rabbit, while other clumps stuck with grease to the rail ties. Tiny jagged 
pieces of teeth shone under the newly uncovered moon, the clouds finally 
parting after it was already too late to help. Bits of bloody human gum were 
attached to the teeth. Oscar swallowed down bile and shifted his gaze. 

Oscar stared down at the single grotesque eye that remained semi-intact, 
half buried but still bulging from the packed earth under the track. The 
other eye was smashed tissue, dead, but looking more human than ever. He 
shivered and turned to walk away. He was unable to stand looking at such 
an unblinking killer. 


The next night, Oscar helped deliver candy to the residents at the Royal 
Oaks Nursing Home while his mom lit fires under the orderlies and rolled 
her eyes at the newest, dumbest ones. It was a sort of reverse trick-or- 
treating, with the candy coming to the people since they couldn’t come for 
the candy. When Oscar arrived at Mr. Devereaux’s room, Marilyn was 
curled at the foot of his bed. 

“Someone’s feeling bold,” Oscar said to her, but Mr. Devereaux was the 
one who answered. 

“T’ve decided that if she’s going to steal my soul, she’s earned the right,” 
he said, and while it made zero sense to Oscar, it seemed to make enough 
sense to Mr. Devereaux that he no longer eyed the loyal cat with suspicion. 

“So, how’d the harvest go?” he asked, and again, Oscar found himself in 
the company of one of Mr. Devereaux’s lucid moments. More than lucid, 
even. It’s like he’d been standing right there on the train tracks with Oscar 
when he needed it most. 

“Bad crop this year,” he said, and Mr. Devereaux nodded slowly, as 
though he’d been there before. Oscar tried and failed to imagine Mr. 
Devereaux with his own three-foot-tall chomping rabbit. 

“But ’m glad I did the digging,” said Oscar, and with that, Mr. 
Devereaux was satisfied enough to fall back asleep, Marilyn greedily 
kneading the space between his splayed feet. 

In the break room, Oscar found his mother, to whom he hadn’t spoken 
since the morning, and only to explain that the toy had done “just a little bit 
of damage” to the doors, and he’d spend the next weekend patching them 
and probably the rest of his natural life saving for a new garage door. His 
mom hardly seemed to notice, though. He supposed their fight over the 
phone earlier in the night had left more of a gaping hole in her than 
anything the Plushtrap could have done. 

Because he’d felt so awful about that, he did something that he knew 
wouldn’t make up for it, but he knew he had to try. So he took what 
remained of his money and stopped into HAL’S HALLOWEEN HALLWAY and 
picked up a small plastic jack-o’-lantern and two bags of the chocolate- 
covered almonds she loved so much. He filled the pumpkin with the 
chocolates and stashed it in a cabinet in the break room until he knew she’d 
be taking her first coffee of the night. 


When he handed it to her, she smiled, but he thought she hadn’t looked 
that sad since his dad died. 

Still, she pulled him in for the tightest, rib-cracking hug in recent 
memory, and even though he could barely breathe under her fierce grip, he 
was so happy to know that he hadn’t completely destroyed her. 

“J never meant to depend on you so much,” she whispered while she 
held him, and Oscar was surprised. He’d thought his dad was the reason for 
her sadness. He’d never considered she might be the reason. 

“Tt’s okay,” and he surprised himself by meaning it. It really was okay. 
Not all the time, but he thought maybe that made the good times better. 
Like when his mom liked the present he made for her. Or when his friends 
put their actual lives on the line just so he wouldn’t face a monster alone. 

“Tt’s okay,” he said, and he let her hug him for a good long while. 


ABOUT THE 
AUTHORS 


Scott Cawthon is the author of the bestselling video game series Five 
Nights at Freddy’s, and while he is a game designer by trade, he is first and 
foremost a storyteller at heart. He is a graduate of The Art Institute of 
Houston and lives in Texas with his wife and four sons. 


Andrea Rains Waggener is an author, novelist, ghostwriter, essayist, short 
story writer, screenwriter, copywriter, editor, poet, and a proud member of 
Kevin Anderson & Associates’ team of writers. In a past she prefers not to 
remember much, she was a claims adjuster, JCPenney’s catalogue order- 
taker (before computers!), appellate court clerk, legal writing instructor, and 
lawyer. Writing in genres that vary from her chick-lit novel, Alternate 
Beauty, to her dog how-to book, Dog Parenting, to her self-help book, 
Healthy, Wealthy, and Wise, to ghostwritten memoirs to ghostwritten YA, 
horror, mystery, and mainstream fiction projects, Andrea still manages to 
find time to watch the rain and obsess over her dog and her knitting, art, and 
music projects. She lives with her husband and said dog on the Washington 
Coast, and if she isn’t at home creating something, she can be found 
walking on the beach. 


Carly Anne West is the author of YA novels The Murmurings and The 
Bargaining and middle grade novels based on the Hello Neighbor video 
games. She lives in Seoul, South Korea, with her husband and their two 
sons. 


rim wasn’t always lucid. 

Well now, it wasn’t good to fib. The truth was that Grim was 
ra cid. Being lucid made his teeth hurt. His teeth hurt when his eyes 
and his ears hurt. When he was lucid, the world had this way of assaulting 
his eyes and his ears. Everything was too intense, too much. Grim preferred 
to hang out in his own crazy world where the voices in his head ruled, even 
when he knew they were crazy. 

Grim’s teeth hurt tonight. 

In the shadows, pressed against the corrugated metal sides of a storage 
shed near the train tracks, Grim pulled his dirty pink acrylic blanket tighter 
around his body. Though the blanket was damp and provided no warmth, it 
comforted him. Also, because it wasn’t just dirty—it was so filthy you had 
to pry at the blanket fibers with a fingernail to find a hint of pink—it gave 
him camouflage. Camouflage was good. Ever since he’d walked away from 
his life, he’d done everything he could to be invisible: he hunched his five 
feet eight inches into several inches less than that; he ate just enough to 
keep skin hanging on his bones; he covered his long stringy brown hair with 
a floppy gray hat; he hid his long face under a matted beard. And he gave 
up his name for the nickname he’d been given. He made it his goal to be 
unseen. 

He especially did not want to be seen right now. No way. No how. 

He didn’t want to be seen because he didn’t like the pounding and 
clanking. And he didn’t like what he was seeing. He was seeing ominous 
things, things that hurt his teeth. 

For the last five minutes, Grim’s gaze had been riveted on the railroad 
tracks. Or again—truth was important—not on the tracks themselves but 
rather what was on the tracks. What was on the tracks was disturbing him 
greatly. 

On the tracks, illuminated by the peripheral glow of a security light, a 
cloaked figure was prying bizarre items from the rails. The figure was 
Slightly hunched and moving in an awkward pitch-and-roll gait that 
reminded Grim of the way people walked after coming off a boat. Grim was 


only twenty feet or so from the hooded person, but he could clearly see both 
the figure and what it was collecting. 

The person appeared to be unaware of Grim, and Grim intended to keep 
it that way. Grim’s teeth wanted to chatter, and his body wanted to shake, 
but he willed himself still as he watched the mysterious figure pound at the 
end of what looked like a foot-long pry bar with a bright yellow end. The 
yellow end kept wriggling free pieces of something Grim couldn’t identify. 
So far he’d seen it collect a hinged jaw, a jagged row of what looked like 
bloody human teeth, mutilated human eyes, several bolts, a computer port, 
and chunks of metal with tufts of dark green fur. 

Now he continued to watch while the figure pried up one and then two 
green oblong objects. What were those? 

As if answering Grim’s inner question, the figure held up the pieces. 
Even in the muted light, Grim could immediately discern what they were. 
In his previous life, he’d been a professor, and even at the rate he’d been 
pickling his brain cells, he still had many at his disposal. 

Green rabbit ears. 

Oh, his teeth. 

The figure went back to prying, and it worked free of the tracks a large 
metal rabbit foot. 

Grim had to admit to himself a modicum of curiosity about what the 
figure was doing. But his sense of self-preservation was stronger. So he sat, 
with aching teeth, as still as the bits of detritus the figure was collecting, 
until the figure put all the pried-up parts in a bag and disappeared into the 
darkness. 

Detective Larson knocked on the door of a one-and-a-half-story brown 
Craftsman house squatting next to a two-story Craftsman four times its size. 
He looked down at the well-maintained porch he stood on. It looked like it 
had fresh paint. He’d noticed the entire house was in similar condition. But 
the paint and tidiness weren’t having what was probably their intended 
effect. The house he stood in front of looked diminished, not just in relation 
to its bigger, spiffier neighbor, but in general. If houses had faces, this house 
would look hangdog. 


A mission-style door opened in front of Larson. A pretty young woman 
with almost cartoon-large eyes and shoulder-length brown hair looked at the 
detective with absolutely no interest. “Yes?” 

“Ma’am, my name is Detective Larson.” He showed the woman his 
shield. She gave it the same non-attention she was giving him. “As part of 
an ongoing routine investigation, I need to take a look at the premises. Do 
you have any objections?” 

The woman squinted at him. He thought he saw the glint of something 
lying dormant in her gaze, like she had some spark that had been nearly, but 
not fully, extinguished. He wondered if that spark was about to light an 
objection to his entry. He didn’t know what he’d do if it did because he 
didn’t have a warrant. 

The woman shrugged. “Come on in.” 

Crossing the threshold into a meticulously clean and neat living room, he 
looked around and saw that a small kitchen and dining room were in similar 
condition—this in spite of the fact that the house contained at least four 
cats, which lounged in various displays of regal ownership on the backs of 
furniture or in puddles of sunlight on braided throw rugs. 

“I’m Margie,” the woman said. She offered her hand. 

Larson took it. It was cool and limp. 

She looked up at him, one eyebrow raised, as if she was waiting for him 
to answer some unasked question. He smiled at her but said nothing. He 
wondered what she saw when she looked at him. Did she see the thirty- 
something, decent-looking guy he used to see in himself or did she see the 
deep lines forming around his mouth and eyes, which was all he could see 
now when he caught a glimpse of his face in the mirror? 

She looked away, her gaze landing on two of the cats. She frowned and 
shook her head. “Sorry about all the cats. I’m not sure how this happened. I 
was given one to keep me company after ... um, well, just to keep me 
company. Turned out it was a she, and she was pregnant. I couldn’t bear to 
give the four kittens away. I felt like their mom, and it seemed like 
abandonment. So here I am. A cat lady.” She gave a dry laugh and then 
coughed. 

Larson had a feeling she used to laugh a lot and had gotten out of 
practice lately. He wondered what had happened to her. He was tempted to 
ask, but that wasn’t why he was here. 


Larson started wandering through the house. Margie followed him. 

“How long have you lived here?” he asked. He’d found that chatting 
with homeowners tended to distract them when he was checking out their 
place. It gave him more time to poke around before they started getting 
uncomfortable or even defensive. 

“Just over three years.” Her voice hitched between “three” and “years.” 

He glanced at her. 

She sounded like she was going to cry, but her eyes were dry, and her 
face was placid. “I was hired to take care of a sick boy while his dad served 
overseas. He passed away and left me the house.” 

The dad or the boy, Larson wondered. He didn’t ask. 

Larson had stepped into a short hallway with three doors. A fifth cat 
appeared from inside the last door. It was a small gray tabby. It sat down in 
the middle of the hall and started cleaning itself. 

Larson looked into a small, shiny bathroom and then into a decent-size 
bedroom, the one the woman was obviously using. A fuzzy yellow robe 
was folded neatly at the foot of a queen bed, and cosmetics were lined up 
just as neatly on a cherry dresser. Other than those touches, he thought the 
room had a distinctly masculine feel. 

Larson decided not to comment on the woman’s relationship with her 
dead employer, whatever that relationship might have been. He didn’t need 
to risk setting her on edge. He continued on down the hall. 

The old house creaked and shifted, emitting something that sounded like 
a groan. He was pretty sure Margie flinched at the noise. 

A dark gray cat meandered down the hall, sniffed the gray tabby, and 
then rubbed against Larson’s black slacks. He bent over and scratched it 
behind the ears. He knew he’d be sorry later. He was allergic to cats, but he 
still liked them. 

Stepping into what was obviously the second bedroom, Larson stared at 
the single bed in the middle of the room. Other than the bed, the room held 
only a small cabinet. 

He wasn’t sure what to make of this room, but he was compelled to stay 
in it. Specifically, the cabinet grabbed his attention. 

Next to him, Margie was quiet. She was close enough for him to smell 
what he assumed was her soap or shampoo. It had a fresh but clean scent, 
nothing heavy or alluring like perfume or cologne. In spite of the makeup 


she wore, he got the impression Margie didn’t care much about doing things 
to impress others. He wondered if that was why he found her attractive. He 
liked her simple transparency. No, she wasn’t spilling her guts to him in the 
annoying way nervous witnesses often did, but she wasn’t trying to be 
something she wasn’t either. He could tell. 

He cleared his throat as he meandered around the bed toward the cabinet 
that had captured his interest. “We’ve been pursuing a person of interest in 
the ongoing case I mentioned. The case has been at a near standstill. It’s 
gone without any leads, until recently. Now we have this.” He reached into 
the inner pocket of his gray sports jacket and pulled out a photo, which he 
held up for Margie to see. 

Margie said nothing, but her face had a lot to say. First, she flushed. 
Then, as quickly as her cheeks went pink they lost all color, and she 
blanched. Her eyes widened. Her mouth opened slightly. He heard her 
breathing quicken. 

About to call her out on her reaction, Detective Larson did a stutter step 
of surprise when the gray tabby suddenly jumped onto the single bed. 

“Sorry,” Margie said again. She picked up the cat. It immediately started 
purring. 

Larson couldn’t help himself. He reached out and rubbed the side of its 
face. Suddenly aware he was very close to Margie, he stepped back. 

The cabinet was right in front of him. He hadn’t realized he’d reached it. 
Now, he had to see what was inside of it. 

At the same time he was drawn to it, he felt an inexplicable reluctance to 
open the cabinet door. He sneezed. 

“Excuse me,” he said. 

“Tt’s the cats,” Margie said. 

“Tt’s okay.” He was lying. He’d be miserable the rest of the day. 

He realized he was putting off opening the cabinet. Which was absurd. 
So he grabbed the cabinet knob and pulled on it. 

The cabinet was empty, but the inside walls of the cabinet weren’t. They 
were covered in harsh black scribblings jammed close together. What 
looked like nonsensical letters made by a thick marker covered nearly every 
inch of the cabinet’s interior. Larson could see no meaning in the scrawls, 
but nonetheless they gave him the same feeling he’d had when he’d looked 
at the recent grotesque death reports. 

Larson turned and looked at Margie. “What happened in this house?” 
